[]

Inflation set to ease back below double figures for first time in eight
months

The Independent (United Kingdom)

May 23, 2023 Tuesday 1:42 PM GMT

Copyright 2023 Independent Digital News and Media Limited All Rights
Reserved

[]

Section: BUSINESS; Version:1

Length: 558 words

Byline: Holly Williams

Highlight: Economists expect Wednesday’s official figures to show
Consumer Prices Index (CPI) inflation dropping to 8.2% in April from
10.1% in March.

Body

Inflation is expected to fall sharply to reach single figures for the
first time in eight months when official figures are released on
Wednesday as rises in the cost of living slow after last year’s painful
energy bill hikes.

The Office for National Statistics (ONS) is set to reveal Consumer
Prices Index (CPI) inflation dropping to 8.2% in April from 10.1% in
March – the first time it has been below 10% since August last year –
according to most economists.

The predicted fall will reflect last April’s sky high rise in energy
prices dropping out of the calculation, with the energy price cap having
jumped higher a year ago as wholesale prices rocketed after Russia’s
invasion of Ukraine.

Last April, the energy price cap soared by 54% to £1,971, but this year
the Energy Price Guarantee (EPG) has been kept at £2,500 since last
October.

We expect April’s CPI report to lay the foundations for a hold vote at
the Monetary Policy Committee’s next meeting

Samuel Tombs, Pantheon Macroeconomics

The steep drop in inflation is likely to strengthen the case for the
Bank of England to keep interest rates at 4.5%, after voting for 12
successive hikes in a row in a bid to calm the cost crisis, according to
Samuel Tombs at Pantheon Macroeconomics.

He is also forecasting some welcome relief for families with a drop in
food price inflation to 18% from 19.1% in March.

Mr Tombs said: “We expect April’s CPI report to lay the foundations for
a hold vote at the Monetary Policy Committee’s next meeting.

“But with data for May due to be published the day before the June
policy announcement, markets still will need to price-in some risk of
further tightening.”

Inflation has been stubbornly higher than predicted by the Bank and its
top bosses admitted to MPs on Tuesday that it made errors in its
forecasting of UK inflation, with governor Andrew Bailey saying the Bank
had some “very big” lessons to learn over how it decides monetary
policy.

The Bank earlier this month revised its inflation expectations after
saying food price inflation had been higher than expected.

It previously thought the UK’s Consumer Prices Index (CPI) inflation
could fall as low as 1.0% by the middle of next year, but it is now
predicted to reach about 3.4%.

But Mr Bailey insisted in the session with MPs that inflation had
“turned the corner”.

Ofgem is set to confirm on Thursday that energy prices will fall sharply
for households in July, when the current EPG comes to an end.

Forecasters at Cornwall Insight are expecting the price cap to fall to
£2,053.77, below the EPG for the first time since it was introduced last
October.

UK inflation has been the highest among the G7 advanced nations,
highlighting Britain’s reliance on imported energy and food, while also
raising questions over the impact of Brexit on the cost of living.

In March, UK energy price inflation was the highest in the G7 and food
price inflation was second only to Germany.

Ellie Henderson, at Investec Economics, said households will still be
feeling under pressure despite the expected fall in April’s CPI.

She said: “Although utility bills in the UK were capped by the
Government’s Energy Price Guarantee in April, the same cannot be said
for all bills.

“Specifically, the average consumer saw a 7.5% monthly uplift to their
water bill in April, alongside an average 14% increase to their
broadband bills.”

Load-Date: May 23, 2023

  End of Document

[]

For Campos Neto, fuels helped in the drop of inflation projections in
the Focus

CE Noticias Financieras English

May 22, 2023 Monday

Copyright 2023 Content Engine, LLC.

All Rights Reserved

Copyright 2023 CE Noticias Financieras All Rights Reserved

Length: 223 words

Body

The president of the Central Bank, Roberto Campos Neto, commented on
Monday, 22, in a seminar of the Folha de S.Paulo newspaper, the
inflation expectations of the Focus Bulletin. For 2023, the median fell
from 6.03% to 5.80% on Monday, according to him "very much in function
of fuel prices". Last week, Petrobras announced a new fuel pricing
policy and a drop in the prices charged for gasoline, diesel and cooking
gas.

The president of the Central Bank also evaluated that long inflation
expectations "stuck" at 4% and are persistent. According to him, the
permanence of these expectations for 2025 and 2026 at 4%, far from the
3% target center, is mainly due to the uncertainty about the inflation
target, with "government debate".

But there are effects related to the fiscal, which, according to him, is
being addressed and noise between government and BC that leads to
uncertainty about the monetary authority meeting the targets. "The theme
of the target is predominant today. But there are already elements to
see inflation expectations falling," he evaluated.

According to Campos Neto, Brazilian inflation is currently below the
world average. "Not that Brazilian inflation is within the target, but
global inflation has risen a lot," he said, adding that inflation cores,
at 7.5% in annualized terms, are still far above the target.

Load-Date: May 23, 2023

  End of Document

[]

"The worst time": Argentine shoemakers and tailors give in to 109%
inflation

CE Noticias Financieras English

May 17, 2023 Wednesday

Copyright 2023 Content Engine, LLC.

All Rights Reserved

Copyright 2023 CE Noticias Financieras All Rights Reserved

Length: 530 words

Body

By Horacio Soria

BUENOS AIRES, May 17 (Reuters) - At Juan Capano's shoe workshop on the
outskirts of Buenos Aires, 109 percent inflation is having a painful
daily impact: constantly changing input costs for the leather, laces and
rubber that workers assemble into boots with their machines.

Argentina is struggling with one of the highest inflation rates in the
world and the worst since 1991, raising the specter of hyperinflation
and an economic crisis.

Four out of 10 Argentines live in poverty, while strict exchange
controls result in dollars being traded in unofficial markets at twice
the official price, inflating the cost of imports.

"It is the worst, the worst moment for the footwear industry. The worst
of all times in terms of wages, in terms of production, in terms of
everything is the worst moment," Capano, 56, told Reuters, adding that
one had to look to hyperinflation circa 1990 to find a comparable
situation.

In those times, he explained, supplier prices changed almost daily. In
fact, the clothing and footwear sector experienced the worst monthly
inflation of all categories in April at 10.8%, data from the INDEC
statistics agency show. The overall increase was 8.4%.

"All suppliers invoice me in pesos, every day they change my prices.
There are price lists sometimes from important suppliers that they don't
touch them every day, but twice a week for sure," he said, adding that
this was aggravated by high taxes and lower sales.

Despite reduced profit margins and uncertainty, Capano said he is
seeking to avoid layoffs among his 40 workers, a broader trend that has
meant employment levels are holding up, for now, in Argentina despite a
drop in income and purchasing power.

Sales, however, have stalled as hard-hit consumers tighten their belts,
Capano and others said.

"The feeling is that people want to buy, but it's not coming," said
Gustavo Casabe, 57, a shoe store owner who was trying to stimulate sales
by allowing people to pay in interest-free installments. "In the end,
you absorb the cost but you have a little more sales," he added.

At a clothing market in the capital, shopkeepers complained about higher
import prices due to volatile exchange rates. The peso reached almost
500 to the dollar on parallel markets last month, while it trades at
around 231 in the official market.

"Prices have gone up three, four times because of the dollar. Most of us
work with imported products, the fabrics are imported," said shopkeeper
Susana Habib. "You can't have four or five different exchange rates. It
is simply impossible," she added.

Shoppers said it is increasingly difficult to buy clothes and fabrics,
as prices exceed wages. Meanwhile, vendors pointed to changes in habits
that include more people looking to refurbish old clothes rather than
buy new.

"I've seen people bring in a wedding dress so I can transform it into a
quinceañera (fifteenth birthday) dress," said designer Maria Teresa
Pedulia.

"I never mended clothes, but people now mend clothes because they can't
afford to buy them," she concluded. (Reporting by Horacio Soria and Juan
Bustamante, written by Anna-Catherine Brigida and translated by Nicolás
Misculin Edited by Lucila Sigal)

Load-Date: May 18, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Inflation outstrips big wage growth

The Age (Melbourne, Australia)

May 18, 2023 Thursday

Print & First Editions

Copyright 2023 The Age Company Limited All Rights Reserved

Section: NEWS; Pg. 21

Length: 359 words

Byline: Rachel Clun

Body

Workers have experienced the strongest annual wage growth in a decade
but it remains within Reserve Bank forecasts, tempering fears the larger
pay packets will fuel an interest rate rise next month.

Wages grew by 0.8 per cent over the first three months of the year and
by 3.7 per cent in the 12 months to March, Australian Bureau of
Statistics figures show - the largest annual increase since 2012.

But when factoring in inflation, real wages have fallen by 3.2 per cent
over the past year. Inflation has eased from its December peak of 7.8
per cent to 7 per cent in March.

Yesterday's wage growth data, along with the unemployment rate being
released by the ABS today, will be key figures factoring into the
Reserve Bank board's interest rate decision at its June meeting.

In May, the bank surprised economists by raising the official cash rate
by 0.25 percentage points to 3.85 per cent. Meeting minutes published
this week show board members were willing to keep lifting rates
depending on how the economy evolved.

The annual lift in wages is near the RBA's expectations. It forecasts it
will reach 4.1 per cent in the second half of the year.

Callam Pickering, the Asia-Pacific economist for jobs site Indeed, said
cost-of-living pressures continued to outstrip wage gains, meaning the
real purchasing power of households had plummeted.

"Adjusted for inflation, Australian wages have fallen by 3.2 per cent
over the past year," he said. "Unless you've received a promotion or
changed employer recently, there is a good chance that your salary buys
a lot less now than it did a year ago."

Australia's largest banks have mixed views on where the RBA will go with
interest rates from here; Westpac and ANZ expect the bank to hold rates
steady in June but lift them in August. Commonwealth Bank believes the
current rate of 3.85 per cent is the peak.

But there is still a chance the RBA lifts interest rates again,
according to Sean Langcake, the head of macroeconomic forecasting for
Oxford Economics Australia.

"The RBA has made it clear that, absent a pickup in productivity growth,
this pace of wage growth and inflation warrants tighter policy
settings," he said.

Load-Date: May 17, 2023

  End of Document

[]

President Buhari not responsible for high inflation rate Garba Shehu

PM News

May 18, 2023 Thursday

Copyright 2023 Independent Communications Network Limited. All Rights
Reserved

Length: 453 words

Body

rba Shehu has rubbished a report by Guardian linking his principal,
President Muhammadu Buhari, to the rise of inflation in Nigeria to its
17-year high. Shehu, in his response, noted that high inflation is a
world-wide problem and no nation is immune to it.

According to the presidential media aide, the report was twisted to
satisfy the preconceived notions of the newspaper. He noted that
President Buhari, who will leave office in two weeks, has consistently
prioritized efforts to control inflation and will continue to do so.

Garba said: "These days, the Guardian newspaper is at its best when it
comes to twisting politically sensitive facts to suit its preconceived
notions. "In one of its highest fallacies, the paper this morning is
tying the rise of inflation to its 17-year high to the person of the
President, Muhammadu Buhari who leaves office in exactly two weeks from
this day.

"Anybody who promotes this kind of thinking is telling the whole world
that they either don't know what is happening all over the world or they
are not paying attention to the facts. "This stubbornly high inflation
is a world-wide problem and no nation is immune to it since the global
economic downturn triggered by the COVID-19 pandemic.

Related News "Inflation was boosted everywhere by the COVID-19 lockdowns
with severe impact on national economies due to the dislocation of
manufacturing and supply chains. "This is what led to fewer goods and
the rises in prices of those goods reaching the market.

"Considering that Nigeria relies heavily on imports for essential
products like petroleum, cooking oils, fertilizers, crop chemicals, and
others, international price fluctuations significantly impact local
prices. The government, unless it chooses to disregard the principles of
free trade, has limited maneuverability in this regard.

"France, which enjoyed a stable average inflationary regime of 4.1
percent from 1960-2022 is today reporting price increases of up to
1,080.36%.

"At 10.1 percent, UK inflation is at a 41-year high. Ghana's inflation
rate had hit a two-decades high of 54.1 percent before a recent
decrease.

"Turkey's rate is 45 percent, Pakistan has also reported an alarming
high inflation rate comparable to countries with similar profiles. The
war in Ukraine meant a rocketing in foodstuff prices leading to fear of
famine in many countries, never mind inflation! "While Nigeria's
reported inflation rate of 22 percent is undoubtedly high and worrisome,
it would be incorrect to suggest that the Buhari administration is not
making efforts to address the volatile global cost of living crisis.

"President Buhari has consistently prioritized efforts to control
inflation and continues to do so."

Load-Date: May 18, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Rising Inflation Numbers at 22.22% Leaves CBN Slim Thicket for Rates
Tweak...

Naija 247 News

May 22, 2023 Monday

Copyright 2023 Naija 247 news Media Limited All Rights Reserved

Length: 678 words

Body

Ahead of the next Monetary Policy Committee meeting for May 2023,
several indices including the battle against surging inflation have
remain on the front burner for the committee as there appears a slim
thicket for quantitative easing. measure at the altar of growth. This is
part of the expectations that the lingering FX pressures and various
market dynamics will continue playing pivotal role in the policy
direction of the committee.

At the May 2022 MPC meeting, the CBN, in its quest to rein inflationary
pressures, adopted the hawkish stand by 150bps rates hike.

This became the ritual at the last 6 meetings where rates were on the
rise by 650bps to 18.00% and keeping other parameters unchanged.

Notwithstanding the committee's resolve on price stability and other
inflation-driving elements, the recent inflation printing and the
forecast for the continued surge in inflation numbers in 2023 provides
further room for rates tweak in line with major Central Banks to abet
the avoidance of capital flights out of Nigeria.

The recent report from the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) showed
there was an acceleration of the headline inflation for the fourth
straight month in 2023 to 22.22% in April 2023 from 22.04% in the
previous month. This indicates a 0.18 percent points increase m/m and
the highest reading since September 2005 (24.3%).

We attribute this continued uptrend in the headline consumer price index
to devalued Naira

which has made imported goods more expensive; increasing cost of gas, as
well as the cost of

electricity generation and distribution (3.72%). Also, the contributions
of items on the

divisional level further precipitated the acceleration.

Thus, food and non-alcoholic beverages (11.51%), clothing and footwear
(1.70%), transportation cost (1.45%) and household furnishing and
equipment (1.12%).

The food index has continued to be a driver of the headline index. The
index rose to 24.61% y/y in April 2023 as a result of increases in
prices of Oil and fat, Bread and cereals, Fish, Potatoes, Yam and other
tubers, Fruits, Meat, Vegetable, and Spirits. The April figure increased
from 24.45% in March 2023 due to rises recorded in electricity

tariffs, energy-diesel and petrol prices, and miscellaneous goods and
services in the month.

These, we linked to the ongoing conflict in Ukraine have disrupted the
global supply of food, which has led to higher prices, the devaluation
of the Naira has made imported food more expensive, and the government's
decision to ban the importation of some food items has also contributed
to the rising cost of food.

The core inflation, which excludes the prices of volatile agricultural
produce stood at 20.14% in April 2023 y/y. the highest increases were
recorded in prices of Gas, Passenger transport by Air, Liquid fuel,
Vehicle spare parts, Fuels, and lubricants for personal transport
equipment, Medical services, Passenger transport by road, etc.

On the state profiles, all items inflation rate was recorded highest in
Bayelsa (26.14%), Kogi (25.57%), Rivers (24.95%), while Borno (19.06%),
Taraba (19.64%) and Sokoto (19.90%) recorded the slowest rise in
headline inflation on a y/y basis in April 2023.

Meanwhile, the food inflation basket saw Kogi (29.50%), Kwara (29.48%),
and Bayelsa (29.38%) emerging as states with the highest while Sokoto
(19.55%), Taraba (20.20%) and Jigawa (20.68%) recorded the slowest rise
in April.

Cowry Research sees rising inflation on an upward trajectory in 2023,
giving further room to policy tightening measures by the CBN at the May
2023 MPC meeting in its the continued battle against stubborn inflation.

We note that the rising inflation rate is eroding the purchasing power
of Nigerians and making it more difficult for them to afford basic
necessities. As such, the Central Bank of Nigeria is keeping the
Monetary Policy Rate (MPR) high and selling foreign exchange to banks at
a higher rate.

For May 2023, we project a slower acceleration in hea dline inflation to
22.5%. Also, we project a possible 50bps increase in the interest rate
in its May-2023 meeting.

Load-Date: May 23, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Annual inflation slowed to 3.9% in April

Financial Mirror

May 17, 2023 Wednesday

Copyright 2023 Alayam Newspaper. Provided by Syndigate Media Inc. All
Rights Reserved

[]

Length: 344 words

Body

Cyprus had the fourth lowest annual inflation rate in the EU at 3.9% in
April, below the European average of 8.1%.

Cyprus' annual EU-harmonised inflation slowed to 3.9% in April from 6.1%
in March; official data showed on Wednesday.

According to the Statistical Service, the Harmonized Price Index (HICP)
rose 3.9% between April 2022 and April 2023 and 0.9% between March and
April.

For the four months of January - April 2023, the HICP rose by 5.9%
compared to the same period of the previous year.

In April 2022, the HICP had increased by 8.6%.

Compared to April 2022, the largest changes were in Food and
Non-Alcoholic Beverages (6.9%), Furnishings, Household Equipment and
Routine Maintenance of the House (6.7%) and Restaurants and Hotels
(6.5%).

Compared to March 2023, the largest price change was recorded in
Clothing and Footwear (4.2%).

For January - April 2023, compared to the previous year, the largest
price changes were recorded in Housing, Water, Electricity, Gas and
Other Fuels (14.0%), Food and Non-Alcoholic Beverages (8.5%) and
Restaurants and Hotels (8.2%).

As regards the economic origin, the largest changes when compared to the
index of April 2022 were recorded in Food and Non-Alcoholic Beverages
(5.8%) and non-energy industrial goods (5.7%).

The largest change was monitored in Energy (-2.9%) compared to the March
index.

The euro area's annual inflation rate was 7.0% in April, up from 6.9% in
March. A year earlier, the rate was 7.4%.

European Union's annual inflation was 8.1% in April, down from 8.3% in
March.

A year earlier, the rate was 8.1%.

The lowest annual rates were registered in Luxembourg (2.7%), Belgium
(3.3%) and Spain (3.8%).

The highest annual rates were recorded in Hungary (24.5%), Latvia
(15.0%) and Czechia (14.3%).

Compared with March, annual inflation fell in 22 Member States and rose
in five.

In April, the highest contribution to the annual euro area inflation
rate came from food, alcohol & tobacco (+2.75 percentage points, pp),
followed by services (+2.21 pp), non-energy industrial goods (+1.62 pp)
and energy (+0.38pp).

Load-Date: May 22, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Quarterly inflation rate down

Sunday Standard

May 8, 2023 Monday

Copyright 2023 Sunday Standard All Rights Reserved

Length: 543 words

Body

Botswana's inflation rate in the first quarter of the year averaged 9.4
percent, lower than last year's average of 10.4 percent, with consumer
prices still higher than Bank of Botswana's objective range of 3 to 6
percent.

The country's national inflation rate accelerated last year, recording
double digit growth as the Ukraine and Russia war disrupted supply
chain, sending energy prices to soar.

The annual inflation rate was 12.1 percent in 2022, almost twice the
annual inflation rate in 2021 which averaged 6.7 percent. The increase
in the two years has been steep compared to the annual inflation rate of
1.9 percent in 2020.

Bank of Botswana, which is responsible for ensuring price stability,
increased the monetary policy rate from 1.65 percent in April 2022 to
2.65 percent in August 2022, and has maintained it to date. The
intervention saw consumer prices cooling beginning of the year, with the
January rate coming at 9.3 percent, and fell to 9.1 percent in February,
and picked to 9.9 percent following Botswana Energy Regulatory
Authority's decision to increase fuel costs.

In the first three months of 2023, prices rose the most for the
education sector, clocking 5 percent growth in prices. The food and
non-alcoholic beverages prices grew by 2.1 percent, and on a yearly
basis, the prices were up by 17.8 percent. The furnishings, household
equipment and routine maintenance costs were up by 1.7 percent. The
alcoholic beverages and tobacco also climbed by 1.7 percent, while the
clothing and footwear prices increased by 1.5 percent.

The central bank's monetary policy (MPC) in its first sitting of the
year in February said while consumer prices will fluctuate, the
inflation rate will trend downwards and fall within the objective range
in the second quarter of 2024.

The projected decrease in inflation into the medium-term is due to the
dissipating impact of the earlier increases in administered prices (base
effects), recent decrease in domestic fuel prices, modest domestic
demand, current monetary policy posture, expected decrease in global
inflation and international commodity prices, as well as the
implementation of a smaller downward annual rate of crawl of the Pula
exchange rate (1.51 percent compared to 2.87 percent), all of which
exert downward pressure on domestic inflation,' said Moses Pelaelo, the
Bank of Botswana governor, when announcing the MPC decision to maintain
the monetary policy rate at 2.65 percent.

The governor further said the inflation projection is subject to upside
risks, including the potential increase in international commodity
prices beyond current forecasts and persistence of supply and logistical
constraints.

'On the domestic front, the risks for higher inflation relate to, among
others, possible annual price adjustments in administered prices that
are not factored in the current projections; entrenched expectations for
higher inflation; any realised upward pressure on wages; and any, yet
unwarranted, overshooting of prices in the advent of reversion of the
Value Added Tax to 14 percent; all of which could lead to higher general
price adjustments. These risks are, however, moderated by the
possibility of weak domestic and global economic activity, as well as
restrained commodity prices.'

Load-Date: May 8, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Uncertain weather, external factors pose risks to growth, inflation: Fin
Min

MINT

May 22, 2023 Monday

Copyright 2023 HT Media Ltd. All Rights Reserved

Length: 411 words

Dateline: New Delhi

Body

New Delhi, May 22 -- India's economic growth and inflation face
potential risks arising from uncertain weather conditions as well as
from global factors, as stated in the monthly economic report for April
by the department of economic affairs under the ministry of finance.
Despite this, the report also highlights the positive impact of domestic
consumption. "There are downside risks to growth and upside risks to
inflation, partly channelled through the external sector and partly
originating from weather uncertainties," the ministry said.

The report highlights the diminishing inflationary pressures worldwide,
driven by the decline in international commodity prices excluding
precious metals. This trend is attributed to weakened global demand
prospects and improved supply chains. However, caution is advised as
price levels may persist above pre-pandemic levels under certain
circumstances.

The report identifies potential factors such as escalating geopolitical
tensions, adverse weather conditions, unexpected high demand from China,
or tighter-than-anticipated oil supplies. "Prices of commodities
sensitive to El Ni&#241;o effects, such as coffee, rice, palm oil, and
natural rubber, need to be continuously monitored," it said.

Softening of international prices affected India's inflation favourably
with WPI inflation declining to 33-month low of -0.9% in April 2023,
after remaining in double digits for 18 months. Retail inflation also
gradually declined from a peak of 7.8% in April 2022 to an 18-month low
of 4.7% in April this year. Sticky core inflation has moderated
significantly to almost a three-year low in April, signalling a
pass-through of lower input costs by producers. However, the government
is expecting tailwinds that are expected from domestic consumption,
which has seen steady growth, and from investments into capacity
creation and real estate.

"Yet a strong point going India's way is the strength of its domestic
demand. Consumption has shown steady and broad-based growth, while
investment in capacity creation and real estate is finding traction," it
added.

The government is also expecting bumper harvest of food grains in FY23.
Good prospects for the kharif season in FY24 are expected to keep food
inflation low in the upcoming months.

Published by HT Digital Content Services with permission from MINT. For
any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement,
please contact Editor at contentservices@htlive.com

Load-Date: May 22, 2023

  End of Document

[]

CBDT updates cost inflation index

MINT

April 11, 2023 Tuesday

Copyright 2023 HT Media Ltd. All Rights Reserved

Length: 257 words

Dateline: New Delhi

Body

New Delhi, April 11 -- The Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) has
notified new cost inflation index (CII) to make adjustments in purchase
price of long term capital assets for the purpose of computing tax on
capital gains.

The CBDT order said that the provisional cost inflation index for FY24
is 348, as against 331 for FY23. The updated index makes computation of
capital gain more in tune with the inflation scenario.

Inflation indexing is allowed in the case of long term capital assets
like property and shares. These assets are reported in the books of the
tax payers at the historical cost or cost of acquisition. Due to effect
of inflation, the gap between purchase price and sale price could get
inflated due to price rise. Inflation indexing offers relief to tax
payers from the effect of price rise.

"The cost inflation index (CII) serves as the foundation for calculating
long-term capital gains on stocks and real estate. CII is calculated
using the inflation rate. If the holding period of certain assets
exceeds a certain period, the assets can be classified as long-term
assets, and the assessee can claim the benefit of inflation rises via
the inflation index," explained Om Rajpurohit, Joint Partner (Corporate
and International Tax) with AMRG & Associates, an accounting firm. CII
is linked to consumer price index based inflation. i

Published by HT Digital Content Services with permission from MINT. For
any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement,
please contact Editor at contentservices@htlive.com

Load-Date: April 11, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Inflation stickier as consumers live with it

The Australian

May 13, 2023 Saturday

Australian Edition

Copyright 2023 Nationwide News Pty Limited All Rights Reserved

Section: MARKETWATCH; Pg. 39

Length: 1077 words

Byline: GREG IP

Body

Last northern autumn, Americans were obsessed with inflation. The issue
dominated the midterm elections. One in five respondents called it the
nation's most important problem, according to Gallup.

These days, their attention is elsewhere. Just 9 per cent of Gallup
respondents now call inflation the most important problem, behind
government leadership and the "economy in general" and just ahead of
immigration and guns. It has barely come up in Washington's fight over
raising the debt ceiling.

Good news? Maybe not. It may mean people are getting used to higher
inflation, which would be very bad news. The more people behave as if
high inflation is here to stay, the likelier it is to stay. That would
force the Federal Reserve to choose between inducing a potentially deep
recession to force inflation lower, or giving up on its 2 per cent
inflation target.

The Labour Department reported on Wednesday that consumer prices rose
4.9 per cent in the year through to the end of April, the lowest in two
years and down substantially from 9.1 per cent last June, mostly because
petrol prices have fallen. That helps explain why people aren't
obsessing as much over inflation, though they are still obsessing more
than before the pandemic.

And yet inflation is very much still a problem. Core inflation, which
excludes food and energy, is a better predictor than overall inflation
of underlying price trends. Core inflation was 5.5 per cent in April,
down from 5.6 per cent in March. On a monthly basis, core prices rose
0.4 per cent, equivalent to 5 per cent at an annual rate, in line with
the past four months. Excluding shelter, core services prices, which the
Fed watches closely, rose a much more tame 0.1 per cent for the month,
according to independent analyst Omair Sharif. Wages, which strongly
influence service prices, grew 4-5 per cent during the first four months
of the year, too high to be consistent with 2 per cent inflation.

The original surge in inflation had two main sources: pandemic and
war-related disruptions to the supply of goods, services and -labour,
and federal stimulus and near-zero interest rates that stoked demand.
Those factors have largely receded. Supply chains are functioning
normally. Labour supply has mostly recovered, with the labour-force
participation rate now in line with its pre-pandemic trend. Petrol
prices are back to where they were before Russia invaded Ukraine. As for
demand, fiscal stimulus has expired, and since March 2022 the Fed has
raised its short-term interest-rate target from near zero to 5-5.25 per
cent.

The theory two years ago was that once these transitory supply and
demand factors receded, inflation would return to 2 per cent. And
indeed, some prices have fallen, apartment rents are rising more slowly
and employers aren't so desperate to hire.

But this theory always carried a caveat: the longer it took for these
transitory factors to subside, the greater the risk people would adjust
to faster rising prices and wages, which might make them
self-sustaining. That may be under way now.

"We're getting a process where persistent, large shocks to inflation are
starting to get embedded in price and wage setting," said Bruce Kasman,
chief economist at JPMorgan Chase. "Even though energy prices have come
down and growth isn't robust, pricing power and profit margins have been
stronger than expected." Price and wage-setting psychology is often
inferred from expectations of future inflation. Fed officials comfort
themselves by noting long-run expectations, that is, five to 10 years
from now, are still near 2 per cent. But central bankers' belief that
long-term expectations predict behaviour better than short-term
expectations rests on weak empirical foundations. If they are wrong, it
is ominous that the University of Michigan reports consumers' one-year
expectation has been above 4 per cent almost continuously for two years.
Firms, which set prices, also expect inflation above 5 per cent in the
coming year, according to a survey by economists Olivier Coibion and
Yuriy Gorodnichenko.

In earnings reports, companies complain a lot less about input costs or
labour shortages; they do report effortlessly raising prices. The new
buzzword among chief financial officers is "elasticity": how sensitive
sales volume is to price increases. The less sensitive, the better for
companies. "Our elasticities remain favourable on an aggregate basis,"
Procter & Gamble CFO Andre Schulten said last month, describing a
quarter in which the company's sales volume fell 3 per cent from a year
earlier while it raised prices about 10 per cent.

"When Coca-Cola, Pepsi, Kimberly-Clark, Kraft Heinz and ConAgra are
raising prices, that filters through to restaurants, and when you have
Hilton and Marriott talking about average daily revenue going up, that
translates into services" inflation, said Samuel Rines, strategist for
market advisory Corbu. "That is going to continue until the consumer
pushes back." He said consumers were assuming if prices were going up,
so were their wages. "Until that assumption is broken, the consumer is
not going to blink at paying an extra 5-6 per cent on ketchup." Some
policymakers say companies are worsening inflation by boosting profits.
But if that was once true, it no longer is; Riccardo Trezzi of
Underlying Inflation, a research service, calculates that, based on
government data, profits' contribution to prices declined in the fourth
quarter.

Anyway, whether wages are driving prices or vice versa may soon be
irrelevant. Once inflation has settled at a higher steady-state rate,
wages and prices rise together.

In such a situation, it can take a deep recession to get inflation down.
This seems to be why markets think inflation will drop sharply in the
coming year and the Fed will start to cut interest rates. Yet thus far
there is no evidence of even a mild recession. Housing, the sector most
sensitive to more expensive credit, has stabilised and construction
employment is rising.

Fed chairman Jerome Powell says slow economic growth, not a recession,
should be enough to return inflation to 2 per cent. For now, the Fed has
signalled it may have finished raising rates.

Central bankers seem wedded to gradualism - accepting a very slow fall
in inflation to avoid too much damage to the labour market, Mr Kasman
said. The problem with gradualism is that the longer the path for
lowering inflation, the less likely it is to happen. The Wall Street
Journal

Load-Date: May 12, 2023

  End of Document

[]

The Government clings to April inflation of less than 8% despite
consulting firms' projections

CE Noticias Financieras English

May 23, 2023 Tuesday

Copyright 2023 Content Engine, LLC.

All Rights Reserved

Copyright 2023 CE Noticias Financieras All Rights Reserved

Length: 516 words

Body

The Government foresees a reduction in May inflation, according to
INDEC's previous reports, although it is ruled out that the Consumer
Price Index (CPI) will remain very high.

According to the preliminary work of the agency headed by Marco Lavagna,
the next inflation index will be below 8%, against 8.4% in April.

Although the last projections that the official presented to the
President, Alberto Fernández, and to the Minister of Economy, Sergio
Massa, failed, because they estimated 7.2% in March and it was 7.8% for
that month, and for April they foresaw 7.8%, but it was 8.4%.

INDEC's inflation projections clash with the estimates of private
consulting firms.

INDEC's preliminary inflation estimates contrast with those of private
consulting firms, which project a rising inflation rate for May, close
to 9%.

Food continues to put pressure on inflation: it has already accumulated
a 6.1% increase in May

Food prices are growing week by week and in May they have already
accumulated an increase of 6.1%, according to LCG's measurement, as
anticipated by TN.

The food and beverage index showed an average inflation of 8.6% in the
last four weeks and 8% if the same period is taken from end to end.

The products that increased the most in the last month were mainly
take-out meals, dairy products and eggs, meat and vegetables.

The list of increases in food and beverages in the last four weeks was
as follows:

-   Take-out meals: 12.9%;

1.  Dairy products and eggs: 10%;

1.  Meat: 9.8%;

1.  Vegetables: 8.9%;

1.  Condiments and other food products: 7.5%;

1.  Beverages and infusions for home consumption: 6.6%;

1.  Bread, cereal and pasta products: 6.1%;

1.  Sugar, honey, sweets and cocoa: 5.4%;

1.  Fruits: 3.3%;

1.  Oils: 2.7%.

Which food and beverage categories increased the most in the third week
of May

Taking into account the third week of May, the increase in food prices
averaged 1.28%, and showed a deceleration of 2.3 percentage points with
respect to the previous week.

In this case, the products that led the weekly increase were condiments,
take-out meals, dairy products and eggs. The main variations were in the
following items:

-   Condiments and other food products: 3.12%;

1.  Take-out meals: 2.57%;

1.  Dairy products and eggs: 2.31%;

1.  Sugar, honey, candies and cocoa: 1.91%;

1.  Beverages and infusions for home consumption: 1.19%;

1.  Meats: 1.16%;

1.  Vegetables: 1.10%.

According to a survey, the population believes that annual inflation
will be 96.4%.

According to a survey conducted in May, the inflation expected by the
population for the next 12 months is 96.4% on average, according to a
study conducted by the Center for Research in Finance (CIF) of the
Business School of the Torcuato Di Tella University.

-   Since the beginning of the year, the increase in inflation
      expectations is around 26.2 percentage points, compared to 70.2%
      in January.

1.  By regions, the interior is where the value is closer to the
      national average (96.2%), the Federal Capital is above (108.2%)
      and GBA is below (92%).

1.  Higher-income households have an average inflation expectation of
      100%, while lower-income households have an average inflation
      expectation of 90.1%.

Load-Date: May 24, 2023

  End of Document

[]

OECD inflation falls to 7.7% in March 2023, as energy inflation
continues to drop

Arab News Digest

May 6, 2023 Saturday

Copyright 2023 SAUDI RESEARCH & PUBLISHING COMPANY All Rights Reserved

Length: 436 words

Body

06 May 2023 (Emirates News Agency (WAM)) Year-on-year inflation in the
OECD, as measured by the Consumer Price Index (CPI), fell to 7.7% in
March 2023, down from 8.8% in February 2023 and from the 10.7% peak in
October 2022. Returning to its February 2022 level, the decline in
inflation was broad-based, with inflation between February and March
2023 moderating in 34 of the 38 OECD countries. At the low end, Japan,
Luxembourg, Spain and Switzerland recorded inflation rates below 4%,
while inflation in Hungary and Turkiye still exceeded 20%. Energy
inflation in the OECD dropped sharply to 1.3% in March 2023, down from
11.9% in February. This fall largely reflects the strong increase in the
consumer price index for energy in March 2022 (i.e. base effect). Energy
inflation declined in 36 of the 38 OECD countries and was even negative
in 13 countries in year-on-year terms. However, this story was not
universal, with energy inflation remaining above 20% in six countries.
Meanwhile, food inflation in the OECD tapered for the fourth consecutive
month, down to 14.0% from 14.9% in February. OECD inflation less food
and energy remained broadly stable at 7.2%. Year-on-year inflation in
the G7 slowed further to 5.4% in March 2023, down from 6.4% in February,
with a broad-based decline across all seven countries. Italy recorded
the most significant drop, reflecting a sharp decrease in energy
inflation. In Canada, Japan and the United States, negative
contributions from energy prices helped to tame headline inflation. Food
and energy inflation remained the main contributors to headline
inflation in Italy, while inflation excluding food and energy served as
the main driver in Canada, Germany, the United Kingdom and the United
States. In France and Japan, both components contributed almost equally
to headline inflation (Figure 2). In the euro area, year-on-year
inflation, as measured by the Harmonised Index of Consumer Prices
(HICP), fell to 6.9% in March 2023, from 8.5% in February. Energy prices
declined by 0.9 percentage point in March. Food inflation and inflation
less food less energy increased slightly. Eurostat's ;uflash estimate
for April 2023 points to a slight increase in year-on-year inflation in
the euro area, to 7.0%, as the estimated rise in energy inflation was
partially compensated by a slight decline in inflation less food and
energy. In the G20, year-on-year inflation fell to 6.9% in March 2023,
from 8.0% in February. Outside the OECD, inflation decreased in Brazil,
China, India, Indonesia and Saudi Arabia, but increased in Argentina. It
was broadly stable in South Africa.

Load-Date: May 7, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Inflation-hit households ‘typically needed £5,455 extra over past two
years’

standard.co.uk

May 22, 2023 Monday 2:32 PM GMT

Copyright 2023 Evening Standard Limited All Rights Reserved

[]

Section: MONEY,BUSINESS; Version:1

Length: 506 words

Byline: Vicky Shaw

Highlight: Households should not be afraid to reach out and ask for
help, according to interactive investor, which made the calculations.

Body

Households have typically needed to find an extra £5,455 in total over
the past two years, just to keep up with surging inflation, according to
calculations by an investment platform.

Price rises across key areas of household spending have “robbed” people
of their purchasing power, interactive investor said.

It made the calculation by looking at inflation between March 2021 and
March 2023. It looked at Office for National Statistics (ONS) household
spending data for part of the research.

Some of the £5,455 figure will have been offset by the Government
support put in place to help households with rising bills as the
calculation did not factor this in.

Inflation is expected to cool further this year -but that doesn't mean
that the cost-of-living burden on personal finances will lift anytime
soon

Myron Jobson, interactive investor

Government support with energy bills has kept them lower than they would
have been otherwise and cost-of-living payments have provided additional
financial support to groups considered particularly vulnerable.

People can find out more about the cost-of-living support available at
helpforhouseholds.campaign.gov.uk.

Myron Jobson, senior personal finance analyst, interactive investor,
said: “Inflation is expected to cool further this year – but that
doesn’t mean that the cost-of-living burden on personal finances will
lift anytime soon.

“When every pound counts, it is important to keep tabs on your spending
habits to get a better idea of the goods and services that are eating
most into your budget, and where you could cut back as inflation remains
stubbornly high and the cost of borrowing rises.”

Alice Guy, head of pensions and savings at interactive investor, said:
“If you are struggling to make ends meet then don’t be afraid to reach
out and ask for help.

“Banks and lenders have a duty to support their customers and debt
charities can help review your budget and may be able to help you cut
your debt costs by speaking to your lenders.”

Interactive investor also looked at the impacts of frozen income tax
thresholds.

It said “fiscal drag” – where rising earnings push some people into
higher tax bands – could cost some taxpayers a similar amount to the
basic rate of income tax rising to 25% or 30% by 2028, depending on
their income levels.

Its projections suggest that low earners on £20,000 will pay £3,762 in
tax by 2028, including income tax and national insurance, assuming their
wages keep pace with inflation.

This compares with a £3,796 tax bill in 2028 if tax thresholds kept pace
with inflation, but basic rate income tax was raised from 20% to 30%.

Middle earners on £30,000 could pay £7,654 tax by 2028, including income
tax and national insurance, assuming their wages keep pace with
inflation.

This compares with a £7,844 tax bill in 2028 if tax thresholds kept pace
with inflation, but basic rate income tax was raised from 20% to 25%,
interactive investor said.

Ms Guy added: “Fiscal drag is largely hidden because tax is complicated
and not many people check their payslips.”

Load-Date: May 22, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Stronger peso helps inflation

CE Noticias Financieras English

May 15, 2023 Monday

Copyright 2023 Content Engine, LLC.

All Rights Reserved

Copyright 2023 CE Noticias Financieras All Rights Reserved

Length: 276 words

Body

Inflation in Mexico will continue to moderate going forward, favored
-among other things- by the appreciation of the peso against the dollar,
estimated Grupo Financiero BX+.

The expectation of a lower dynamism in consumption could also
contribute, which would reduce some of the pressures on the demand side,
although it warned that some components will be more reluctant to
decrease.

In particular, due to the fact that service prices are more sensitive to
wage pressures and to the misalignment of economic agents' price
expectations, which may materialize after a strong inflationary period.

Last week, the dollar traded at its lowest level since 2017, trading
below 18 pesos. On Friday, the interbank exchange rate closed at 17.5787
units, which represented a slight appreciation compared to Thursday. In
banks, the greenback was sold at 18.02 pesos.

For the inflation indicator in Mexico City, BX+ calculated the monthly
price variations of a basket of goods and services for the middle class
-50 thousand pesos per month average-.

This is an alternative indicator to the one published by the National
Institute of Statistics and Geography, since it serves a particular
segment of the population.

The objective is to help investment decision making through the
knowledge of real yields (discounting inflation) in the creation of
wealth.

In this regard, BX+ analysts pointed out that the leisure and culture
section stood out downward, as some of the effects of Easter Week are
diluted.

The prices of some tourism-related services rose in March, prior to the
holiday. In mid-April, some of the movements began to reverse,
especially in package tours, among others.

Load-Date: May 16, 2023

  End of Document

[]

BSP halts rate hikes with inflation slowing

The Manila Times

May 19, 2023 Friday

Copyright 2023 The Manila Times All Rights Reserved

[]

Length: 757 words

Byline: Niña Myka Pauline Arceo

Body

MONETARY authorities opted to pause from further interest rate hikes on
Thursday with inflation said to be now on a downward trajectory
following a tightening cycle that began last year.

The Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas' (BSP) overnight reverse repurchase,
deposit and lending rates were maintained at 6.25 percent, 5.75 percent
and 6.75 percent, respectively.

"Based on the sum of new information and its assessment of the impact of
previous monetary policy actions, the Monetary Board decided a pause in
monetary policy tightening was appropriate," central bank Governor
Felipe Medalla told a briefing.

The BSP's policymaking Monetary Board last ordered a 25-basis-point
(bps) increase in March. This brought cumulative rate hikes since May
last year to a total of 425 bps. The central bank's policy rate is
currently at its highest in nearly 16 years.

Inflation, which hit a 14-year high of 8.7 percent in January this year,
dropped to 6.6 percent in April but remains well over the BSP's 2.0- to
4.0-percent target.

On Thursday, the Monetary Board cut its 2023 inflation forecast to 5.5
percent from 6.0 percent. The outlook for next year was also trimmed to
2.8 percent from 2.9 percent.

The BSP, which has said that average inflation would fall below 4.0
percent next year, noted that "expectations for 2024 and 2025 are
steady, and within the target range."

While gross domestic product growth remained robust at 6.4 percent in
the first quarter, the central bank said "demand indicators have also
pointed to a potential moderation in the recent months, suggesting that
previous policy rate increases by the BSP continue to work their way
through the economy."

"[T]he Monetary Board is encouraged by the recent mounting of
whole-of-government actions to ease constraints on food supply," it
added.

Risks to the outlook remain largely tilted to the upside.

The impact of supply constraints on key food items is still a concern as
well as the looming El Niño phenomenon which could affect food and
utility prices. The central bank also noted the effects of possible wage
and fare adjustments.

Conversely, the impact of a weaker-than-expected global economic
recovery could be the primary downside risk to the outlook, the BSP
said.

"Given these considerations, the Monetary Board deems it prudent for the
BSP to take a pause in monetary policy tightening while remaining ready
to respond to emerging threats to inflation," the central bank said.

The board also "deems it necessary to keep the policy interest rate at
its current level over the near term, as ongoing price pressures
continue to warrant close monitoring," it added.

"A prudent pause also allows monetary authorities to further assess how
macroeconomic and financial conditions will evolve in view of tighter
global financial conditions."

The BSP said it remained vigilant in monitoring developments that could
pose risks to the inflation and growth outlook and was ready to resume
monetary tightening if needed.

Sought for comment, ING Bank Manila senior economist Nicholas Antonio
Mapa said key interest rates would be kept steady in the near term with
a cut in the reserve requirement ratio (RRR), by 200 bps to 10 percent,
to follow in June.

Michael Ricafort, chief economist at Rizal Commercial Banking Corp.,
said that with inflationary pressures mostly emanating from the supply
side, these "could be better addressed by non-monetary measures to
increase the local supply of food and other commodities in an effort to
bring down prices and overall inflation."

China Banking Corp. chief economist Domini Velasquez, meanwhile, said
the "prudent pause relies on inflation not reversing its downward
trajectory, and the peso not depreciating too much to kick off another
round of inflationary pressures."

If there will be "no upward surprise in prices and the foreign exchange
market behaves," the central bank might not raise key rates any more
even if the US Federal Reserve, which raised rates by 25 bps earlier
this month, orders another hike in June.

Bank of the Philippine Islands lead economist Emilio "Jun" Neri, on the
other hand, said another 25-bps hike "would have still been the prudent
choice ... as core inflation remains near a 2-decade high."

"At any rate, it may still be premature to be talking about BSP policy
rate cuts as the global tightening cycle may not be over just yet," he
added.

"We think BSP may not cut until 2024 as they may prioritize the much
needed RRR cuts and the rebuilding of its GIR (gross international
reserves) buffer before considering an RRR cut."

Load-Date: May 18, 2023

  End of Document

[]

European Central Bank celebrates 25 years in war against inflation

CE Noticias Financieras English

May 24, 2023 Wednesday

Copyright 2023 Content Engine, LLC.

All Rights Reserved

Copyright 2023 CE Noticias Financieras All Rights Reserved

Length: 612 words

Body

In the midst of a war against inflation, the European Central Bank (ECB)
is celebrating its first quarter century, a period marked by crises that
have forced the institution to increase its scope for action.

Around 200 guests are expected this evening in the ECB's glass and steel
tower on Frankfurt's Main River.

The evening's program includes music by Debussy and a birthday cake, cut
by the bank's president, Christine Lagarde, and two of her predecessors,
Jean-Claude Trichet and Mario Draghi.

The celebration takes place, however, while inflation in the euro zone
is at a record high, considering that the institution, created on June
1, 1998, has as its main mission to control it as much as possible to a
level close to 2%.

Inflation reached 7% in April, driven by energy prices and imported
products.

"We will ensure that inflation returns to our target," Lagarde assured
the European press on Wednesday.

Annual inflation has averaged 2.05 percent over the past 25 years,
during which nine countries have joined the 20-member euro zone.

In addition, the ECB now takes over the supervision of the major
European banks and the euro is the second world currency behind the
dollar.

- Existential crises -

Despite its good qualifications, the ECB has also gone through difficult
times.

It had to go through several storms, such as the threat of seeing the
euro implode in the 2010s due to the public debt crisis.

A long phase of stable inflation was followed by a sharp acceleration of
rising prices due to the war in Ukraine.

Thinking it would be a passing phenomenon, the ECB at first waited
before raising key interest rates to an unprecedented 3.75 percentage
points since July, at the risk of affecting an already fragile growth.

Interest rates will be "brought to sufficiently restrictive levels,"
which will be maintained "for as long as necessary" to return inflation
"as quickly as possible" to the 2 percent target, Lagarde added.

The difficulties facing the eurozone have caused the ECB's monetary
arsenal to extend beyond the classic interest rate weapon: programs to
buy public and private debt, flirting with the ban it has on financing
countries, and waves of giant loans to banks.

The institution has also made terrible mistakes. In 2011, Jean-Claude
Trichet raised interest rates when a crisis was brewing. His successor,
Mario Draghi, has corrected the trend since taking office and earned the
nickname "Super Mario," savior of the eurozone.

But the Italian's solitary management ended up creating a rift in the
board of governors, where the heads of the national central banks work,
who have divergent ideas.

- Digital Euro -

Christine Lagarde helped silence the dissenting voices.

"In an unstable world, the ECB has ensured and will continue to provide
a reliable anchor of stability," the former IMF director wrote.

"In every crisis it has gone through, the ECB has been able to innovate
and adapt, and that is what should be remembered before highlighting
mistakes or internal tensions," said Frederik Ducrozet, chief economist
at Pictet Wealth Management.

The ECB currently employs 4,200 people, ten times as many as in 1999,
and its mandate continues to evolve as it seeks to give monetary policy
a "green" touch in the face of the imperative to combat climate change.

As for the euro, used by some 350 million Europeans in 20 countries, the
currency "will survive for many more years to come," Lagarde assured.

The currency will also be transformed: the digital euro, as a new means
of payment in response to the cryptocurrency boom, could be launched "in
three or four years," ECB board member Fabio Panetta said Wednesday in
an interview with French newspaper Les Echos.

Load-Date: May 25, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Oil prices fall on strong dollar, sticky inflation

Philippines Daily Inquirer

May 19, 2023 Friday

Copyright 2023 Philippines Daily Inquirer All Rights Reserved

Length: 305 words

Body

Oil prices fell slightly in early Asian trade on Friday as optimism that
a U.S. debt default will be avoided weighed against sticky inflation
data that could portend more interest rate hikes from global central
banks.

Brent futures were down 2 cents at $75.84 a barrel as at 0015 GMT. U.S.
West Texas Intermediate (WTI) crude fell 10 cents, or 0.043 percent, to
settle at $71.76.

Earlier this week, U.S. President Joe Biden and Speaker of the House of
Representatives Kevin McCarthy reiterated their aim to strike a deal
soon to raise the $31.4 trillion federal debt ceiling, and agreed to
talk as soon as Sunday.

Optimism over a deal plus data showing lower-than-expected initial
jobless claims spurred the U.S. dollar on Wednesday to its highest since
March 17 against a basket of currencies.

U.S. weekly jobless claims fall more than expected

A stronger dollar can weigh on oil demand by making the fuel more
expensive for holders of other currencies.

Also weighing on markets is persistently high inflation data and hawkish
comments from global central banks.

Japan's core consumer prices rose 3.4 percent in April from a year
earlier, government data showed on Friday.

Japan's consumer inflation stays above central bank target as price
hikes broaden

The increase in the core consumer price index, which excludes volatile
fresh food but includes energy costs, matched a median market forecast
and followed a 3.1- percent rise in March.

U.S. inflation does not seem to be cooling fast enough to allow the
Federal Reserve to pause its interest-rate hike campaign, according to
two Fed policymakers.

Meanwhile, European Central Bank (ECB) Vice President Luis de Guindos
said the ECB will have to keep raising interest rates further to bring
inflation back to its mid-term goal of 2 percent though most of the
tightening has already been done.

Load-Date: May 19, 2023

  End of Document

[]

We could manifest inflation away if we put our minds to it

Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

May 23, 2023 Tuesday

Print & First Editions

Copyright 2023 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd All Rights Reserved

Section: OPINION; Opinion; Pg. 21

Length: 654 words

Byline: Millie Muroi

Body

I have a vision board in my bedroom of what I'd like my life to look
like: a reminder to aim for 10,000 steps a day, photos of people I
admire - some of whom may be startled to find themselves there - and
sappy quotes about finding "the one".

It's part of a practice called "manifestation", which some swear by:
making dreams come true by visualising them. So far this year, I've lost
my fitness watch and I'm yet to turn into my favourite YouTuber. But
there's a recent addition to my board: lower inflation.

What if I told you the price increases you've been seeing could be
slowed down - through manifestation? You might be shaking your head but
economists believe in it. They don't call it manifestation, of course,
or we'd start to think their job was some unreliable exercise in
predicting human behaviour.

But inflation is fuelled by belief in it - and, more specifically, the
expectation of where it's heading. If you expect prices to rise, you
tend to push forward your purchases. The problem is when lots of people
are thinking the same thing.

As you know, prices are determined by demand and supply. When there's a
lot of demand for something - say masks during a pandemic - the price
tends to rise. And if you expect prices to keep rising, you're going to
stock up and, yes, push prices up even more.

Sometimes our incentives are shaped by government intervention. More
than 100,000 Australians decided to build homes during the pandemic
after a grant program temporarily lowered the cost.

On the flip side, if you think prices will decline, you're more likely
to hold off on spending so you can snag a bargain later. When demand
falls, the item becomes less scarce and the price falls.

Now, that's a simplification as there are several factors behind
inflation - many out of our control. It's not just demand but supply
that affects the price of things. Countries may go to war, leading to
shortages in the things they'd usually produce. A virus can take
millions of workers out of action and natural disasters might wipe out
farms. The less of something there is to go around, the more expensive
it tends to become.

But there's another factor that feeds into inflation: how much people
are paid. Some argue the impact of wage rises on inflation is
overstated, and it probably is. But it does at least partly increase the
prices you pay.

It's not unreasonable to ask for higher pay when wages have lagged
inflation. But when you ask for a rise in anticipation of having to pay
higher prices, you can stoke the very thing you're trying to offset.

When a company has to pay its workers more, its overall costs increase
and it may pass them on in the form of higher prices. It's called the
wage-price spiral.

In theory, if we all expected inflation to slow down, it probably would.
It may sound silly, but it's the reason why the top dogs of central
banks, including our own RBA, are so worried about inflation
expectations - they're wary of a return to the 1970s and 1980s when high
inflation became entrenched, in our psyche, then in reality.

They're right to be a little worried. In the three years since the
pandemic hit, consumer expectations for inflation have turned out closer
to the actual figure than what economists predicted. Dumb luck?
Possibly. But it could also be that, in periods of uncertainty, our
intentions become harder to map onto neat charts and economic theories.

Research from the International Monetary Fund found the difference in
inflation expectations between consumers and experts might be because we
draw on different things. While experts are often book-smart, using
theoretical models or empirical studies, households tend to draw on
personal experiences.

The jury's still out on the power of manifestation but I've stuck "low
inflation" onto my vision board just in case. Maybe it'll work if I'm
not the only one.

Millie Muroi is a Herald business reporter covering financial services
and markets.

Load-Date: May 22, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Haddad signals change in inflation targeting period

CE Noticias Financieras English

May 19, 2023 Friday

Copyright 2023 Content Engine, LLC.

All Rights Reserved

Copyright 2023 CE Noticias Financieras All Rights Reserved

Length: 476 words

Body

The Minister of Finance, Fernando Haddad, reaffirmed on Thursday (18)
that the Central Bank (BC) will pursue an inflation target unlinked to
the calendar year and signaled that this change, to be made within the
CMN (National Monetary Council), may occur at the June meeting of the
collegiate.

"There are improvements to be made and maybe the opportunity is now,"
said Haddad, during an interview for CNN's "Paths with Abilio Diniz"
program. The interview was recorded during the afternoon and aired at
night.

When asked about the possibility of changes in the inflation targets,
defined by the CMN, the minister affirmed that Brazil is one of the two
countries in the world that adopt the inflation target regime and that
have a calendar year as the horizon to meet the objective. The other
country is Turkey.

"Europe has a 2% target. Until a month ago, they were celebrating the
drop in inflation from 9% to 8.5%," Haddad pointed out.

According to him, a 3% target -as is the case of those established by
the CMN for the years 2024 and 2025- needs to be continuous, and not
limited to one calendar year.

Earlier this month, Haddad had already made an emphatic defense of the
change in calendar for the inflation targeting regime, arguing that
maintaining a continuous target avoids disorganizing the economy at
times when meeting the target imposes very high costs for activity.

At the June meeting, the CMN will define the inflation target for 2026.
The expectation is that the collegiate may also approve a change in the
deadline for reaching the target. The possibility is not seen negatively
by the financial market.

The CMN is formed by Haddad, the president of the Central Bank, Roberto
Campos Neto, and the Minister of Planning and Budget, Simone Tebet.

TAX EXPENDITURE

Haddad also reaffirmed, during the interview, that the government's
intention is to cut a quarter of the tax exemptions. According to him,
the weight of these benefits, for the public accounts, corresponds to
about 6% of the GDP (Gross Domestic Product).

"We are going to cut 1.5% of tax expenditures. We are going to review a
quarter of tax expenditures. With this, even if we increase some
expenses, such as the minimum wage, we will reach the primary result",
said Haddad, when asked if it is feasible to zero the primary deficit.

The minister also affirmed that the Congress is "ready to vote the tax
reform". According to Haddad, after the phase of reorganizing the State
and the public accounts, the government should enter, already in the
second half of this year, in a medium and long term agenda, especially
in issues related to the ecological transition.

Haddad said that the government has a set of one hundred organized
actions in the area of ecological transition that will be launched
before the end of President Lula's mandate and that may draw the world's
attention to Brazil.

Load-Date: May 20, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Inflation in the UK falls but food prices continue to rise

CE Noticias Financieras English

May 24, 2023 Wednesday

Copyright 2023 Content Engine, LLC.

All Rights Reserved

Copyright 2023 CE Noticias Financieras All Rights Reserved

Length: 451 words

Body

Inflation in the United Kingdom experienced a decline, reaching 8.7%
year-on-year in April, down from 10.1% in March, although this decline
is below expectations as food prices continue to rise. Despite inflation
being at its lowest level since last August, the British Office for
National Statistics (ONS) reported today that food prices continue to
register a high rise, raising questions about the persistence of this
trend. "The rate of inflation fell because there was no repeat of the
sharp rises in energy prices seen last year" in April, said Grant
Fitzner, chief economist at the ONS.

The decline in inflation is partly due to the fact that energy prices
have stopped rising exorbitantly, unlike a year ago when Russia invaded
Ukraine and sanctions were imposed. This situation had a direct impact
on wholesale food prices, as Ukraine is a major producer of grains and
sunflowers, essential elements in the food industry. In addition, the
extreme weather also affected crops, such as sugar beets used to produce
sugar and some vegetables. Despite this slowdown in the pace of food
price increases, food prices continue to rise at rates close to historic
highs, and according to the ONS chief economist, although the prices
paid by companies for domestic food materials decreased, the same has
not been reflected on supermarket shelves. Imported food prices also
experienced a considerable drop, but this has not yet been passed on to
end consumers. The persistence of high food prices poses a challenge for
the economic authorities, who are seeking to stabilize inflation and
protect citizens' purchasing power as they continue to represent a
significant burden for British households. According to reports from the
BBC, retailers claim that the decline in wholesale prices takes time to
be reflected on supermarket shelves due to the long-term contracts they
often sign with food producers. This situation makes it difficult to
pass on cost reductions to end consumers. The head of the Mark & Spencer
supermarket chain, Stuart Machin, pointed out that the retail company
made investments to protect customers from the effects of inflation,
even though this affected its profit margins, but he considered that
this measure is the right one to support consumers. In addition, the
Competition and Markets Authority (CMA), launched an investigation into
food and fuel prices in UK supermarkets, with the aim of better
understanding pricing dynamics and ensuring a fair environment for
consumers. The CMA said it would analyze whether a "competition failure"
meant customers were overpaying. Meanwhile, supermarkets said they were
working to keep food prices "as low as possible." (Télam)

Load-Date: May 25, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Inflation set to fall next week, with lower energy bills to follow

i-Independent Print Ltd

May 20, 2023

First Edition

Copyright 2023 Associated Newspapers Ltd. All Rights Reserved

[]

Section: NEWS; Pg. 4

Length: 729 words

Byline: Callum Mason ;Arj Singh

Body

Inflation and the energy price cap are expected to drop next week in a
welcome boost for household finances, and increasing pressure on Jeremy
Hunt for an early tax cut.

The Consumer Prices Index is expected to fall significantly from its
current rate of 10.1 per cent on Wednesday.

Economists believe it will fall to about 8 to 8.5 per cent. The Bank of
England's forecast is that inflation will hit 8.2 per cent across the
second quarter of the year.

Lower inflation could spell relief for many mortgage holders, as it may
decrease the likelihood of a further interest rate rise next month.

It makes the prospect of the Government lowering taxes more likely as
the Treasury will be paying less to service the country's debt.

Sir Iain Duncan Smith, the former leader of the Conservative Party, said
he thought improved inflation figures would give the Chancellor more
room to cut taxes.

"The Government needs to lower the historically high burden of taxation
from businesses and people forced into upper rate tax," he said. "Only
by doing that will we be able to make the case for a Conservative
government at the next election."

Although inflation falling simply means that the rate of price increases
slows down, further falls in energy prices are expected later this year,
which could drive down inflation further.

Next Thursday, the new energy price cap for July onwards will be
announced. Ofgem's director for strategy, Neil Kenward, has said it will
come "down considerably".

Under current limits, a typical household is paying £2,500 per year for
their gas and electricity, but projections by analysts at Cornwall
Insight suggest this could fall to £2,053 per year from July, a drop of
around 18 per cent.

The Bank of England could hold interest rates if inflation falls, and
the Government could lower taxes.

The Chancellor has been under pressure from some of his MPs to cut the
basic rate of income tax as soon as possible to boost the economy and
help with the cost of living.

Geoffrey Clifton-Brown, 1922 Committee treasurer and deputy chair of
Public Accounts Committee, said: "I would expect [lower inflation] would
give the Chancellor a little bit of headroom to start thinking about
some tax cuts in maybe the Autumn Statement."

So far, Mr Hunt has been resistant, but the Prime Minister has opened
the door for an early tax cut thanks to a stronger than expected
economy.

Speaking on his way to Japan for the G7 summit, Mr Sunak said: "I'm a
low-tax conservative… I want people's hard work to be rewarded so I do
want to be able to bring people's taxes down.

"With high inflation and the rate of borrowing it is responsible to deal
with that first."

Inflation Price rises are key to fate of interest rates

Experts told i that falls in inflation could mean the Bank of England
holds interest rates at their current level rather than increase them
when its next decision is announced on 22 June.

9-

The continuing that into doubt interest current

Professor Stephen Millard, deputy director at the National Institute of
Economic and Social Research, said he did not expect the Bank to raise
interest rates assuming inflation does fall to 8.5 per cent, although if
inflation stayed in the region of 9-10 per cent, its committee that
decides rates would be "concerned".

He said that if inflation were to fall and the labour market were to
"loosen" - meaning there are fewer jobs available - then the committee
would be "content with interest rates at their peak, and that they don't
need to go higher".

Interest rates are unlikely to go down for some time - not until later
on next year, experts believe. But it is possible they will remain at
the current level, at 4.5 per cent.

10% of inflation throw keeping rates at levels

Andy Haldane, the former Bank of England chief economist who is now an
adviser to the Chancellor, said the Bank should "press pause" on raising
interest rates because it could risk the economic recovery and leave
people facing an even "tighter squeeze". Speaking to the New Statesman,
he said the recovery was "still on pretty unsteady legs" and that
raising rates could push Britain into recession.

Mr Haldane, who sits on the Chancellor's Economic Advisory Council, said
the Bank and the Government could "take a bit more time" to bring
inflation down.

9-10% The level of continuing inflation that would throw into doubt
keeping interest rates at current levels

Load-Date: May 19, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Market reduces inflation forecast from 6.03% to 5.8% this year

CE Noticias Financieras English

May 22, 2023 Monday

Copyright 2023 Content Engine, LLC.

All Rights Reserved

Copyright 2023 CE Noticias Financieras All Rights Reserved

Length: 375 words

Body

The financial market forecast for the National Wide Consumer Price Index
(IPCA), considered the country's official inflation, fell from 6.03% to
5.8% this year. The estimate is included in this Monday's Focus
Bulletin, published weekly by the Central Bank.

For 2024, the inflation projection remained at 4.13%. For 2025 and 2026,
the forecasts are 4% for both years.

The estimate for this year is above the ceiling of the inflation target
that should be pursued by the Central Bank. Defined by the National
Monetary Council (CMN), the target is 3.25% for this year, with a
tolerance interval of 1.5 percentage points up or down. That is, the
lower limit is 1.75% and the upper, 4.75%. According to the Central
Bank, the chance of official inflation exceeding the target ceiling in
2023 is 83%.

The market's projection for 2024 inflation is also above the center of
the target, fixed at 3%, but still within the tolerance interval of 1.5
percentage points.

Advertising Space

In April, influenced by the increase in medicine prices, the IPCA was
0.61%, according to the Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics
(IBGE). The result is lower than the March rate of 0.71%. In the last 12
months, the indicator has accumulated 4.18%.

To reach the inflation target, the Central Bank uses the basic interest
rate, the Selic, set at 13.75% per year by the Monetary Policy Committee
(Copom) as its main instrument. The rate has been at this level since
August last year and is the highest since January 2017, when it was also
at this level.

For the financial market, the expectation is that the Selic will close
at 12.5% per year. By the end of 2024, the estimate is that the basic
rate will fall to 10% a year. For the end of 2025 and 2026, the forecast
is for the Selic to be at 9% a year and 8.75% a year, respectively.

The projection of financial institutions for the growth of the Brazilian
economy this year rose from 1.02% to 1.2%.

For 2024, the expectation for the Gross Domestic Product is a growth of
1.3%. For 2025 and 2026, the financial market projects GDP expansion at
1.7% and 1.8%, respectively.

The forecast for the dollar rate is R$ 5.15 by the end of this year. For
the end of 2024, the forecast is that the American currency will be at
R$ 5.20.

Load-Date: May 23, 2023

  End of Document

[]

El NiÑo to have 'minor' inflation impact

The Manila Times

May 22, 2023 Monday

Copyright 2023 The Manila Times All Rights Reserved

[]

Length: 579 words

Byline: Niña Myka Pauline Arceo

Body

THE El NiÑo phenomenon is projected to have a "weak to moderate" impact
on food inflation and seems unlikely to hamper the country's economic
growth this year.

"As long as El NiÑo is indeed weak to moderate, and assuming the
government has sufficiently prepared for it, hence the damage to crops
are minimal. Then it would have no major contribution to inflation,"
Finance Secretary Benjamin Diokno told The Manila Times on Sunday.

Diokno stated during the weekly Chat with SBED briefing on Friday that
the transition to El NiÑo is expected in the next months, with a 90
percent likelihood of lasting until the first quarter of 2024. SBED
stands for Secretary Benjamin E. Diokno.

"However, most models show that El NiÑo will be weak to moderate,"
Diokno said.

According to the current estimate, nearly every part of the country will
likely get below to normal rainfall in October this year, with a
heightened southwest monsoon, particularly from July to August.

Meanwhile, certain places in the Visayas and Mindanao may be affected by
dry weather or a dry spell, the Department of Finance said.

The Finance secretary said that the rice and corn would account for the
bulk of losses in crop production caused by El NiÑo.

"Initial estimates show that local rice production this year may
slightly decline by around 1.8 percent while yellow corn will be lowered
by 1 percent due to El NiÑo," said Diokno. "There is also a minimal
reduction in white corn production."

Meanwhile, Diokno pointed out that the production of onion and garlic is
expected to remain unchanged "since they are typically grown in the
first half of the year."

He then said that El NiÑo has little effect on pig or poultry output,
but is favorable to capture fisheries.

"With the projected weak to moderate El NiÑo, we do not expect a
significant reduction in local production especially for rice and corn,"
Diokno exclaimed.

While it was anticipated to have a minimal impact on the country, Diokno
still reiterated government plans to mitigate the El NiÑo phenomenon.

This includes retooling and strengthening the Disaster Task Force,
weekly monitoring and updating of local field conditions, provision of
irrigation network services, buffer stocking of agricultural inputs, and
prepositioning of water pumps and engines.

Diokno said that there is also a need to maximize and optimize
production in non-threatened areas through the provision of seeds and
planting materials, fertilizers, flower inducers, pesticides or
herbicides.

He also mentioned the prioritization of 12 million hectares of
well-irrigated rice areas during the dry season and the promotion of
crop diversification, intercropping, and livestock integration.

"The key policy action is to prepare, prepare, prepare," Diokno said as
agriculture is one of the main sectors that could be severely affected
by the El NiÑo phenomenon.

According to the Finance secretary, the Department of Budget and
Management (DBM) presented the development of a high-frequency
monitoring system for priority budget items, as well as for agriculture.

"For inflation monitoring, the DBM will collaborate with the Department
of Agriculture for the creation of an agricultural monitoring
dashboard," Diokno remarked.

Moreover, Diokno also affirmed that the Inter-Agency Committee on
Inflation and Market Outlook under the Economic Development Group has
started the discussion on how to expedite the implementation of measures
to address both food and nonfood inflation pressures.

Load-Date: May 22, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Psychological" inflation: the opposition's harsh criticism of the
government after the release of April's inflation index

CE Noticias Financieras English

May 12, 2023 Friday

Copyright 2023 Content Engine, LLC.

All Rights Reserved

Copyright 2023 CE Noticias Financieras All Rights Reserved

Length: 997 words

Body

Imaginary" inflation, "psychological" inflation. Opposition leaders
today criticized the Government after the release of the inflation
figure for April, which was 8.4% according to Indec. In an ironic way,
they shared on networks the monthly index and questioned President
Alberto Fernández for having used, at the time, that same category -
"psychological inflation"- to explain the increases in the price index.

"Psychologically you think you buy less products, but no! The president
explains it to you: it is not your pocket, it is your unconscious that
makes you believe that you are buying less", said, for example, Patricia
Bullrich.

"More than three years governing without an economic plan and it gives
him the face to say that Argentines who do not make ends meet
hallucinate," said María Eugenia Vidal, and shared the video where
Fernández is seen explaining the influence of "psychological inflation"
on the economy.

In that sense, the head of the Buenos Aires government, Horacio
Rodríguez Larreta, also shared a photo of the blurred inflation
percentage accompanied with the caption: "It is not in your imagination,
it is real".

And after that he said: "Inflation is real and you can feel it at the
supermarket, when you can't buy everything you need or you have to
choose another brand because the usual one is very expensive. It is
annoying not to be able to indulge yourself or to stop doing things
despite working hard. We are going to change this.

"Inflation is not psychological, it is in the street. The problem is
that they do not leave their offices," accused PRO deputy Cristian
Ritondo on Twitter.

"Psychological inflation".

Alberto Fernández spoke this morning in a radio interview about
inflation in the country and insisted that it is a "psychological" issue
of the small trader.

Throughout the interview, the president referred to the sustained price
increases of products and services that occurred during his
administration and argued that much of that inflation "is
self-constructed", that is, that "it is in people's heads".

"We have to set ourselves some definitive goal to stop this, because
there are many causes that are generating this. One is speculation, the
'just in case'. That psychological inflation is not in the consumer, but
in the small merchant. Sergio has tried to curb it in some way. At some
point it worked and at other times it did not. Let's wait for the Indec
to release today's data.... It is not what we want", said Fernandez this
morning, hours before the April inflation index was released.

Fernández's statements unleashed several criticisms from the opposition,
which were echoed once the monthly and year-on-year inflation figures
were released.

For his part, Javier Milei shared a tweet from the Indec with the
monthly price index information and criticized the Argentine peso. "With
these inflation levels the question is not about whether to dollarize or
not, the question is why continue with the peso as currency? The peso is
the currency issued by the Argentine politician, so it cannot be worth
excrement. To defend the peso is to defend the swindle of politics", he
said.

Afterwards, the libertarian legislator shared a photo of his latest
book, entitled "The End of Inflation" and took the opportunity to
publicize it. "Thank you very much to all the scumbag, parasitic and
useless political caste that defends the existence of the BCRA (a
mechanism of theft against the good Argentines) for so much publicity to
my new book...", he said.

Meanwhile, former Minister of Economy Alfonso Prat Gay also shared a
graph showing the monthly variation of the 12 CPI divisions and after
that he said: "140% annual inflation, poverty above 40%, 100%
unemployment, negative reserves. Is the Minister of Economy being
dismissed? No. The 3 stooges prefer him as a presidential candidate".

Gerardo Morales was another of the opposition leaders who used the Indec
graph to accompany his message. "8.4 inflation! They came to save us
from "hunger" and they are plunging Argentine society into the most
absolute poverty. This is the result of a Government that devoted itself
to palace fights instead of managing", shot the head of the UCR.

In the same line, the pre-candidate for governor of Buenos Aires Diego
Santilli pointed harshly against the administration of Alberto
Fernández. "This is why they wanted INDEC to hide the index. Once again
we have the highest inflation in 20 years. Once again we have the
highest inflation in the region. Once again we have more inflation than
Venezuela. Once again the ineffectiveness of this government blows up in
our face," he denounced via Twitter.

"The sad paradox of Sergio Massa and the Kirchnerist government. They
managed in April that inflation started with 3, but not the monthly, but
the accumulated in the year. In four months, 32 percent inflation. A
complete failure", sentenced the national senator for the UCR Alfredo
Cornejo.

"If the inflation numbers seem outrageous to you, remember that the
basic basket does not include rent. How much is needed to survive? White
workers and retirees are nowadays poor. The Government? Fine, thank you.
It is busy with Cristina's causes", questioned Graciela Ocaña.

April Inflation

Today the Indec confirmed that April inflation was 8.4%, well above the
initial expectations of the Minister of Economy, Sergio Massa, who
promised at the end of last year that the price index would start with a
three percent increase by this time of the year. The price variation of
the last 12 months reached 108.8% and the accumulated variation in the
first four-month period was 32%.

The official figure was also above private estimates, which projected
7.5% inflation for last month, affected by the acceleration of food
prices and the impact of financial volatility in parallel exchange
rates.

Since the beginning of the year, monthly inflation has been
accelerating, taking into account data from January (6%), February
(6.6%), March (7.7%) and last month (8.4%).

Load-Date: May 13, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Inflation bubble burst

Herald Sun (Australia)

May 6, 2023 Saturday

HeraldSun Edition

Copyright 2023 Nationwide News Pty Limited All Rights Reserved

Section: NEWS; Pg. 27

Length: 413 words

Byline: Courtney Gould

Body

Inflation will decline faster than expected as the economy strains under
the weight of rapid rate rises, the cost of living and soaring rents,
the -Reserve Bank says.

In an economic update just days out from the federal budget, the central
bank confirmed inflation had peaked but warned the era of interest rate
increases was not necessarily over.

"Some further tightening of monetary policy may be -required to ensure
that inflation returns to target in a reasonable time frame, but that
will depend upon how the economy and inflation evolve," the RBA said.

Earlier this week the RBA shocked markets and homeowners with an
unexpected -increase in the cash rate, up 25 basis points to 3.85 per
cent.

The Commonwealth Bank on Friday was the last of the big four banks to
pass on the hike to mortgage holders.

Rate City's Sally Tindall said the May rate rise could be the one that
sank "some families' budgets into the red".

While the RBA update -acknowledged the "painful squeeze" the fast pace
of rate increases had on households, it reiterated its "resolute
determination" to trim inflation.

The bank forecasts the consumer price index to fall to 6.3 per cent in
June and to 4.5 per cent by December -before returning to the top end of
its 2 to 3 per cent target range by mid-2025.

"The longer inflation remains above target, the greater the risk that
inflation expectations rise and price- and wage-setting behaviour might
adjust accordingly," it said. "If this were to eventuate, the end result
would be even higher interest rates, and a larger rise in unemployment
would be required to bring -inflation back to target." Rent, one of the
main drivers of inflation, was expected to pick up over the next year,
the RBA warned.

"A shortfall in housing supply, relative to strong demand from a rising
population, is -expected to result in continued upward pressure on
rents," the statement said.

Governor Philip Lowe has previously said the reduction in the average
number of people living in households that occurred during the pandemic
had a role in the rental crisis.

But the update noted that due to the sharp increase in rent prices, more
people were looking for housemates.

The bank also cut its near-term economic forecasts. Economic growth (1.7
per cent) is expected to be half a percentage point lower than forecast
three months ago.

The bank expects the unemployment rate to increase slightly in June, to
3.6 per cent, before reaching 4 per cent by year's end.
courtney.gould@news.com.au

Load-Date: May 8, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Elections 2023: Manes aims to reach 1% inflation by 2024

CE Noticias Financieras English

May 24, 2023 Wednesday

Copyright 2023 Content Engine, LLC.

All Rights Reserved

Copyright 2023 CE Noticias Financieras All Rights Reserved

Length: 408 words

Body

Facundo Manes, deputy of the Unión Cívica Radical (UCR) and member of
Juntos por el Cambio (Together for Change), gave an in-depth interview
after the official announcement of his presidential candidacy for the
2023 elections and assured that "it is possible to reach 1% inflation by
2024".

In statements to Rock and Pop, the radical said that"the next government
will have to stabilize the economy with a comprehensive plan, which will
require political consensus and will".

In the same line, he said: "We have to stabilize the economy and think
about development. We cannot live on raw materials, which are not the
wealth of a society, education is. We have agriculture, which is at the
forefront of the world, has invested in genetics, knowledge, exports and
can grow much more".

At the same time, Manes denounced the lack of agreement in politics:"We
have to stop discussing people, if such and such person took a picture
with such and such person, discuss the stupidities of the rift and
realize that we have an enormous capacity".

In relation to inflation, one of the main economic problems that is put
on the table in electoral times, Manes launched a possible prediction in
case he becomes President: "Inflation can be controlled if the exchange
rate is stabilized. My technical team believes that inflation can reach
1% by 2024".

Manes launched his candidacy for president within JxC

The deputy of Juntos por el Cambio officially launched his presidential
campaign: "We are not forced to choose between those who steal from us
or those who lie".

Through a homemade video posted on his official Twitter account, Manes
communicated the launch: "Dear friends: Argentina is going through very
difficult times, of great uncertainty. Like you, I worked hard to
achieve something in life and I am not resigned to see my country ruined
by inflation and by leaders who only think of themselves".

In the midst of the radical internal race that also has Gerardo Morales
as presidential pre-candidate, the neurologist launched himself and
pointed against "those who steal" and "those who lie": "I want to tell
you something: we are not obliged to choose between those who steal from
us or those who lie. That is why I decided to run for President of the
Nation. To stabilize the economy, develop ourselves and take our country
forward. To recover the Argentine dream of prosperity. To walk again
towards the future with our heads held high. A strong embrace".

Load-Date: May 25, 2023

  End of Document

[]

OPINION -The arrogant Bank of England has made our inflation crisis
worse

standard.co.uk

May 22, 2023 Monday 11:16 AM GMT

Copyright 2023 Evening Standard Limited All Rights Reserved

[]

Section: COMMENT; Version:1

Length: 741 words

Byline: Stephen King

Body

It is, perhaps, the nearest we’ve got so far to an admission from the
Bank of England that things haven’t gone entirely to plan. Andrew Bailey
, the Bank’s Governor, acknowledged last week that “some of the strength
in core inflation …reflects second-round effects... And as headline
inflation falls, these second-round effects are unlikely to go away as
quickly as they appeared”.

Headline inflation will fall this week, courtesy of an unwinding of
earlier energy price increases. Yet “underlying” inflation will still be
uncomfortably high, courtesy of Bailey’s “second-round effects”.

You might have thought that the boffins at the Bank would have
anticipated such effects. The idea that companies and the people they
employ would meekly put up with dramatically higher energy and food
prices with barely a murmur of discontent was always implausible. A
wage-price spiral is, ultimately, in no-one’s interests but what is true
in aggregate is not necessarily true at the individual level. Few of us,
after all, want to be poorer. Those who can negotiate an
inflation-busting pay increase or impose an inflation-busting price
increase will most likely do so.

That’s the problem with what are loosely described as “external shocks”.
No one in Britain was responsible for the pandemic. No one was
responsible for Vladimir Putin ’s invasion of Ukraine. We are, as a
nation, worse off. Yet many of us, if we can find a way, will try to
protect our livelihoods.

The scrabble to do so — while entirely understandable at the individual
level — is an unfortunate complication of price shocks. Following the
quadrupling of oil prices in 1973, the government of the day hoped
inflation would disappear as quickly as it arrived. That, however,
depended on the idea that everyone would accept their newly straitened
circumstances. Many did not.

Policymakers were slow to realise that inflation’s “second-round”
effects had to be restrained before progress could be made on growth and
jobs (and, in case anyone accuses me of being a Thatcherite, it was Jim
Callaghan and Denis Healey who first recognised that defeating inflation
had to be the primary macroeconomic goal).

Back in the Seventies, of course, the Bank of England didn’t enjoy much
in the way of operational independence: it took its instructions from
the Chancellor of the Exchequer, who set both the budget and the level
of interest rates. There was more than a suspicion that the Chancellor
would always have one eye on the next general election and, thus, not
take decisions that reflected the UK’s long-term economic interests.
When Gordon Brown gave the Bank its independence in 1997, the idea was
that such political expediencies would finally be banished.

They mostly have been. Yet after years of tremendous success — with
inflation better behaved than at any other time in many decades — the
Bank seemingly began to believe its own propaganda. Success, apparently,
bred success. Given its track record, the Bank in effect concluded there
was no incentive for those faced with a huge price shock to demand
compensation. People would surely know that any shock would be fleeting.
In essence, “second round effects” simply wouldn’t happen because we,
the public, had no reason to doubt the Bank’s lasting commitment to
price stability.

Yet no one asked what would happen if prices were to persistently rise
at a pace much faster than the two per cent inflation target set for the
Bank by Parliament. Would the public accept reduced living standards or
would there be resistance? The Bank hoped there would be passive
acceptance. As a result, interest rates were initially kept low, even as
headline inflation rose.

As resistance subsequently built, the Bank was, belatedly, forced to
raise rates far more than it had originally planned. Delaying monetary
tightening was, it turns out, a mistake. The public might reasonably
have expected the Bank to do more in the early stages of the
inflationary surge. That the reaction was initially so muted suggested
to many that they could behave in ways that were individually rational,
but collectively destructive. With the monetary tiller temporarily
abandoned, we ended up sailing a lot further into inflationary waters.
Even if we are now reversing course, the journey into calmer seas will
take far longer than it needed to.

Stephen King (@kingeconomist) is HSBC’s Senior Economic Adviser and the
author of We Need to Talk About Inflation (Yale).

Load-Date: May 22, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Wages beat inflation

CE Noticias Financieras English

May 10, 2023 Wednesday

Copyright 2023 Content Engine, LLC.

All Rights Reserved

Copyright 2023 CE Noticias Financieras All Rights Reserved

Length: 294 words

Body

The wage index registered an increase of 10.1 percent in March, 2.4
percentage points higher than the 7.7 percent increase in inflation in
that month, according to Indec. This is the first time in the year that
they beat prices. In March, salaries in the public administration showed
an increase of 16.3 percent, in the private sector the increase was 7.9
percent and in the informal sector it was 6.1 percent.

The Indec document stated that in the first quarter, and against an
accumulated inflation of 21.7 percent, the Wage Index increased 22.2
percent, slightly above the evolution of prices, driven by an increase
of 25.5 percent in public sector salaries; 20.6 percent in the
registered private sector and 21.2 percent in the informal sector.

On the other hand, in the comparison of the last 12 months, the
evolution of salaries was below the inflation of the same period, with
an average increase of 102.4 percent, against 104.3 percent of the
consumer price index. Price increases have accelerated in recent months,
amid financial tensions.

Since the beginning of May, the Government decided to increase the
minimum non-taxable income tax so that all workers earning up to 506,230
gross salary are exempt, as a way to improve purchasing power. This is
an indirect way of improving the purchasing power of part of the formal
workers, although it does not have an impact on the whole structure of
salaried workers.

In mid-April, and after the Indec reported that March inflation was 7.7
percent, the Minister of Labor, Raquel Kelly Kismer de Olmos, had said
that "there is no purchasing loss of the formal salary in the public and
private sectors in the face of price increases. As of March 31, it
maintains the purchasing power of December 31", she said.

Load-Date: May 11, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Tiny drop in grocery inflation this month as rate stays at 17.2%

The Courier

May 24, 2023 Wednesday

Edition 1, National Edition

Copyright 2023 DC Thomson Co Ltd All Rights Reserved

[]

Section: NEWS; Pg. 31

Length: 204 words

Body

Grocery price inflation has fallen for the second month in a row - but
is still adding an extra £833 to the average consumer's annual bill,
according to latest figures.

Prices over the four weeks to May 14 were 17.2% higher than a year ago,
down from April's 17.3%, Kantar said.

In the dairy aisle, the average cost of four pints of milk has come down
by 8p since last month, but is still 30p higher than this time last year
at £1.60.

Fraser McKevitt, head of retail and consumer insight at Kantar, said:
"The drop in grocery price inflation is welcome news for shoppers but it
is still incredibly high - 17.2% is the third fastest rate of grocery
inflation we've seen since 2008.

"This could add an extra £833 to the average household's annual grocery
bill if consumers don't shop in different ways."

Shoppers skirting the higher prices sent sales of supermarket own-label
items up by 15.2% this month, almost double the 8.3% rise seen for
branded products.

Aldi's 24% sales increase made it the fastest growing grocer this month,
while Lidl's sales increased by 23.2%.

Consumers spent an extra £218 million on groceries in the week of the
coronation. Wine price rises were driven by demand as wine inflation
otherwise sits at 1%.

Load-Date: May 24, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Oman's inflation expected to slow further in 2023

Muscat Daily

May 15, 2023 Monday

Copyright 2023 Apex Press and Publishing Provided by Syndigate Media
Inc. All Rights Reserved

[]

Length: 598 words

Byline: Hubert

Body

Muscat – Oman's annual inflation, which remained relatively low in 2022
despite rising global inflation, is expected to further decelerate this
year, thanks to government subsidies, price caps on certain products,
and a strengthening US dollar.

After experiencing one of the lowest inflation rates among GCC countries
in 2022, Oman is expected to record an average inflation rate of 1.9 per
cent for 2023, the lowest expected inflation in the GCC, according to
the International Monetary Fund (IMF).

The inflation rate in Oman decreased to 1.6 per cent in March 2023 from
1.9 per cent recorded in the previous month, the lowest monthly reading
since June 2021. The sultanate witnessed the second-lowest average
inflation rate among GCC countries in 2022 at 2.8 per cent, following
Saudi Arabia which registered an inflation rate of just 2.5 per cent
during the year.

The IMF expects GCC inflation to further decrease in the next two years,
with an average of 2.9 per cent in 2023 and 2.3 per cent in 2024.

'Lower inflation in GCC countries is mainly attributed to governmental
interventions such as price caps on certain products, subsidies on key
products or utilities, and the strengthening of the US dollar, which all
GCC countries have pegged to their currencies, except for Kuwait which
has linked its currency to a basket of currencies including the US
dollar,' Kuwait-based Kamco Investment said in a research report
released on Monday.

In terms of sectoral inflation trends, the food and beverages category
has been one of the most important categories in terms of weight or
growth in Oman's and GCC inflation performance. The food and beverages
category has shown growth in all GCC countries.

Oman's March 2023 inflation was mainly driven by a 4.1 per cent
year-on-year growth of the food and non-alcoholic beverage index, the
second biggest weighted index.

Among GCC countries, inflation growth in the housing category was mixed,
albeit leaning towards positive year-on-year growth during March.
Qatar's housing costs rose by 8.7 per cent year-on-year during March,
the highest growth among GCC countries. On the other hand, Oman's
housing prices remained stable in March compared to the same month of
the previous year.

According to the Kamco Investment report, the combination of persistent
high oil and gas prices and interest rate hikes by GCC central banks,
largely in unison with the US Federal Reserve rate increases, has been
another key factor that kept GCC inflation rates significantly lower
than their global counterparts.

The US Federal Reserve continued its rate-increasing measures to combat
inflation. In its most recent rate hike, the US central bank increased
its benchmark overnight interest rate by 0.25 basis points to the
5.0-5.25 per cent range, marking the Fed's tenth consecutive rate
increase since March 2022.

In response to the Fed's rate hike, all GCC central banks have also
increased their benchmark rates. The Central Bank of Oman recently
increased its repo rate by 25 basis points to 5.75 per cent, following
the US central bank's decision as Omani rial is pegged to the US dollar.
This was Omani central bank's tenth rate hike since March 2022.

Another key driver of the decline in GCC inflation is the decline in
global food prices. The Food and Agriculture Organization's (FAO) main
food price index witnessed its 12th consecutive month of decline in
March 2023. The FAO index tracks the most globally traded food items.
The FAO index averaged 126.9 points during March, 20.5 percent lower
than its peak value at the start of the Russia-Ukraine conflict.

Load-Date: May 15, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Supermarkets rebuff Hunt's call to ease inflation by cutting prices

The Times (London)

May 24, 2023 Wednesday

Edition 1, National Edition

Copyright 2023 Times Newspapers Limited All Rights Reserved

[]

Section: NEWS; Pg. 4

Length: 528 words

Byline: Oliver Wright

Body

Food manufacturers rejected government claims that they are stoking
inflation by imposing unjustifiable price rises on consumers and called
on ministers to do more to support the sector.

Jeremy Hunt, the chancellor, yesterday called leading figures from the
industry to the Treasury to warn them of "widespread concern" about the
level of food price inflation, which new figures show is exceeding 17
per cent.

He urged them to "ease the pressure on consumers" and said the
government was "ready" to impose new pricing rules after an
investigation by the Competition and Market Authority.

However, industry sources insisted that producers had absorbed up to 80
per cent of additional costs from higher energy, transport and labour
bills.

They told Hunt that if he wanted to reduce prices, the government needed
to ease regulations in areas such as recycling that were adding costs.

"We were robust and reinforced the message that putting up prices is
something that is only done as a very last resort, and that many
companies have absorbed the majority of the increases by cutting back in
areas such as longterm investment and margins," they said. "It was a
chance to reinforce the message that there are things government can do
to take the heat out of rising prices."

Figures shows that food price inflation remains stubbornly high, with
the cost of groceries in the four weeks to May 14 up 17.2 per cent on a
year ago. The market research group Kantar said prices had eased
slightly over the previous month, when food inflation stood at 17.3 per
cent.

However, food price inflation is still significantly higher than the
headline rate, which is expected to fall to around 8 per cent in data
today from the Office of National Statistics.

Last month, ONS data showed that overall consumer price inflation fell
to 10.1 per cent in March, while food and non-alcoholic drinks cost 19.1
per cent more than a year earlier - the biggest rise since August 1977.

Kantar said its research showed that the prices for some products that
had seen the sharpest rises earlier this year, such as milk, butter,
pasta and vegetable and sunflower oil, had started to fall.

However, other prices were still rising, including for products such as
eggs and non-refrigerated cooking sauces. Overall it said high food and
drink prices had added an extra £833 a year on average to shoppers'
bills.

Fraser McKevitt, head of retail and consumer insight at Kantar, said:
"The drop in grocery price inflation, which is down 0.1 percentage
points on last month's figure, is without doubt welcome news for
shoppers - but it is still incredibly high."

Kantar said that in response to rising prices, shoppers had moved
towards discount supermarkets such as Aldi and Lidl. Aldi became the
fastest-growing grocer over the past month with its sales increasing by
24 per cent, while sales at Lidl rose 23.2 per cent.

The Competition and Markets Authority is conducting an investigation
into whether the rules on how retailers display prices is fit for
purpose. In particular they are concerned that there are inconsistencies
with how retailers present unit prices for similar products -
particularly those on promotion.

Load-Date: May 24, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Mexico's inflation falls to 6% in first half of May 2023

NAFTA (English)

May 24, 2023 Wednesday

Copyright 2023 Content Engine, LLC.

All Rights Reserved

Copyright 2023 Content Engine LLC All Rights Reserved

Length: 311 words

Byline: Mundo Ejecutivo

Body

Mexico's annual headline inflation stood at 6 percent during the first
fortnight of May 2023, reported the National Institute of Statistics and
Geography (Inegi).

The figure is the result of a decrease in the National Consumer Price
Index (NCPI), which decreased 0.32 percent with respect to the previous
fortnight.

In contrast, during the same period of 2022, biweekly inflation was
-0.06 percent and annual inflation was 7.58 percent.

Basic food basket: Where to find the cheapest groceries, according to
Profeco

Mexico's inflation eases in May 2023; these were the cheapest products

Within the Indicator, the underlying price index increased 0.18 percent
at a biweekly rate, while at an annual rate, its advance was 7.45
percent.

In the first fortnight of May 2023, the non-core price index fell 1.85
percent biweekly and increased 1.70 percent at annual rate.

Merchandise prices, of the core index, increased 0.17 percent, and those
of services, 0.19 percent.

Within the non-core index, prices of agricultural products fell 0.52
percent at a biweekly rate, while those of energy and
government-authorized tariffs fell 2.99 percent. "This was mainly due to
adjustments in electricity rates due to the warm season in 11 cities in
the country."

Infonavit member: this is how you can get promotions and discounts
without credit

Products with rising prices were potatoes and other tubers; lunchrooms,
fondas, torterias and taquerias; own housing; restaurants and similar;
air transportation; sugar; oranges; pet food; automobiles and bottled
soft drinks.

On the contrary, products with downward prices, thanks to the reduction
of Mexico's inflation in the first fortnight of May 2023, were
electricity, lemon, chicken, low octane gasoline, LP domestic gas,
packaged tourist services, clothes washers, eggs, computers and green
tomato.

Follow us on Google News to stay up to date.

Load-Date: May 25, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Higher food prices push Nigeria's inflation to 22.22%

The Nation (Nigeria)

May 16, 2023 Tuesday

Copyright 2023 The Nation All Rights Reserved

Length: 548 words

Body

The consumer price index (CPI), which measures the rate of change in
prices of goods and services, rose to 22.22 per cent last month, up from
22.04 per cent in the previous month.

The inflation rate data is contained in the latest CPI report released
yesterday by the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS).

The last month's increase comes across as the fourth consecutive surge
in the country's inflation figure since the year began.

'Looking at the movement, the April 2023 inflation rate showed an
increase of 0.18 per cent points when compared to March 2023 headline
inflation rate.

'Similarly, on a year-on-year basis, the headline inflation rate was
5.40 per cent points higher compared to the rate recorded in April 2022,
which was 16.82 per cent.

'This shows that the headline inflation rate on a year-on-year basis
increased in April 2023 when compared to the same month in the preceding
year (that is April 2022),' the report stated.

NBS said items such as food and non-alcoholic beverages; housing, water,
electricity, gas and other fuel contributed largely on the divisional
level to the increase in the headline index.

'The contributions of items on the divisional level to the increase in
the headline index are presented below: food and non-alcoholic beverages
(11.51 per cent); housing, water, electricity, gas, and other fuel (3.72
per cent).

'Clothing and footwear (1.70 per cent); transport (1.45 per cent);
furnishings, household equipment and maintenance (1.12 percent);
education (0.88 percent); health (0.67 per cent); miscellaneous goods
and services (0.37 per cent); restaurant and hotels (0.27 per cent);
alcoholic beverage, tobacco and kola (0.24 per cent); recreation and
culture (0.15 per cent) and communication (0.15 per cent).'

The report said food inflation rose to 24.61 per cent in the month under
review, an uptick compared to the 24.45 per cent recorded in the
preceding month.

The rise in the food index, NBS explained, was caused by increases in
prices of oil and fat, bread and cereals, fish, potatoes, yam and other
tubers, fruits, meat, vegetable, and spirits.

'On a month-on-month basis, the food inflation rate in April 2023 was
2.13 per cent, this was 0.06 per cent points higher compared to the rate
recorded in March 2023 (2.07per cent),' the report further reads.

'The average annual rate of food inflation for the twelve months ending
April 2023 over the previous twelve months average was 23.22per cent,
which was 4.35per cent points increase from the average annual rate of
change recorded in April 2022 (18.88per cent).'

Analysing state profiles, the NBS said residents of Kogi, Kwara and
Bayelsa states paid the most for food during the period under review.

'In April 2023, food inflation on a year-on-year basis was highest in
Kogi (29.50per cent), Kwara (29.48per cent), and Bayelsa (29.38per
cent), while Sokoto (19.55per cent), Taraba (20.20per cent) and Jigawa
(20.68per cent) recorded the slowest rise in food inflation on a
year-on-year basis.

'On a month- on-month basis, however, April 2023 food inflation was
highest in Cross River (4.65per cent), Bayelsa (3.61per cent), and Ekiti
(3.49per cent), while Jigawa (0.14per cent), Katsina (0.44per cent) and
Osun (0.62per cent) recorded the slowest rise in food inflation on a
month-on-month basis.'

Load-Date: May 17, 2023

  End of Document

[]

MPC: Inflation, growth in focus as analysts project 50bps hike in MPR

Nigerian Tribune

May 22, 2023 Monday

Copyright 2023 African Newspapers of Nigeria Limited All Rights Reserved

Length: 692 words

Body

FINANCE and economic analysts have predicted that the Monetary Policy
Committee (MPC) will hike the benchmark interest rate known as Monetary
Policy Rate in consideration of rising inflation in the country, while
keeping an eye on growth dynamics.

The 291st Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) meeting of the Central Bank of
Nigeria (CBN) is slated for Monday and Tuesday this week.

Based on a balanced analysis on the current dynamics in the global and
domestic macroeconomic landscape since the last MPC meeting in March,
analysts at Afrinvezt (West) Africa Limited do not expect the CBN to
retain or lower the anchor rate, but , project a modest 50 basis points
(bps) hike in MPR to 18.5 per cent, which, other things being equal,
should cause a nudge in market yield and savings rate.

Hence, 'we anticipate a mild reduction in the general household
propensity to consume in line with the CBN's expectation. However, we
hold that the MPR hike alone is short of being the silver bullet to tame
the runaway domestic inflation rate,' it stated.

The analysts says a combination of fiscal and monetary policy alignment,
improved communication of monetary policy to the market, and a holistic
approach to structural challenges (including insecurity) is the only way
to tame the runaway inflation rate.

In terms of inflation outlook for May, though Afrinvest project that
headline rate would ease by a muted 10bps year on year (y/y) to 22.21
percent driven by the high base year effect and the downward adjustment
of transportation cost post-April's festivity-induced markups, the goal
of price and exchange rate stability is not on the horizon without a
broad-based monetary and fiscal policy recalibration.

In the same way, Cowry Research sees rising inflation on an upward
trajectory in 2023, giving further room to policy tightening measures by
the CBN in its continued battle against stubborn inflation.

'We note that the rising inflation rate is eroding the purchasing power
of Nigerians and making it more difficult for them to afford basic
necessities. As such, the Central Bank of Nigeria is keeping the
Monetary Policy Rate (MPR) high and selling foreign exchange to banks at
a higher rate.

'For May 2023, we project a slower acceleration in headline inflation to
22.5 percent. Also, we project a possible 50bps increase in the interest
rate in its May-2023 meeting,' says analysts from Cowry.

There appears a slim thicket for quantitative easing measure at the
altar of growth. This is part of the expectations that the lingering
foreign exchange (FX) pressures and various market dynamics will
continue playing pivotal role in the policy direction of the committee.

The tightening stance was referred to at the last meeting by a member of
the MPC Edward Adamu Lamtek.

He said, 'these statistics lead me to the conclusion that there
continues to be room for further tightening of financing conditions in
the economy. I see the need to increase the intensity of sterilization
primarily to dampen the impact on money supply on the renewed growth in
foreign asset, to restore system liquidity to its optimal level in in
consonance with the upward direction of the monetary policy rate (MPR).'

At the May 2022 MPC meeting, the CBN, in its quest to rein inflationary
pressures, adopted the hawkish stand by 150bps rates hike. This became
the ritual

at the last 6 meetings where rates were on the rise by 650bps to
18.00percent and keeping other parameters unchanged.

According to the analysts, notwithstanding the committee's resolve on
price stability and other inflation-driving elements, the recent
inflation printing and the forecast for the continued surge in inflation
numbers in 2023 provides further room for rates tweak in line with major
Central Banks to abet the avoidance of capital flights out of Nigeria.
The recent report from the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) showed
there was an acceleration of the headline inflation for the fourth
straight month in 2023 to 22.22percent in April 2023 from 22.04percent
in the previous month. This indicates a 0.18 percent points increase
month on month (m/m) and the highest reading since September 2005
(24.3%).

Load-Date: May 23, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Qatar inflation to average 3% this year, lower than 9.9% in Arab world:
Kamco Invest

Gulf Times

May 21, 2023 Sunday

Copyright 2023 Gulf Times Newspaper Provided by Syndigate Media Inc. All
Rights Reserved

[]

Length: 438 words

Body

Qatar's consumer price index (CPI) inflation is expected to average to
3% this year, which is below 9.9% projected in the Arab world and 3.3%
in the Gulf Co-operation Council (GCC) region, according to Kamco
Invest.

The country's inflation is slated to further decline to 2.7% in 2024
compared to 7.7% and 2.3% in the Arab and the GCC regions respectively,
said Kamco Invest in its report.

In 2023, inflation in Bahrain is expected to be 2.2%, Kuwait 3.3%, Oman
1.9%, Saudi Arabia 2.8% and the UAE 3.4%. By 2024, inflation in Bahrain
is estimated to be 2.2%, Kuwait 2.6%, Oman 2.4%, Saudi Arabia 2.3% and
the UAE 2%.

Kamco Invest said Qatar's inflation rate increased by 4% year-on-year in
March-2023, recording its lowest mark since February-2022. Qatar's
inflation rate growth was driven by an overall prices increase across
the eight categories or sub-indices of its CPI.

"The overall trend in Qatar's inflation is projected downwards," the
report said.

In its latest consultation report, the International Monetary Fund
forecasts for Qatar an inflation rate of 3% in 2023 and 2.7% in 2024. On
the other hand, the fund also predicts that Qatar's real GDP (gross
domestic product) growth would slow down from 4.2% in 2022 to 2.4% in
2023 and further to 1.8% in 2024.

Inflation remained relatively low in the GCC in 2022 despite averaging
higher than estimates in 3.3% compared to annual estimate of 3.1%,
according to the IMF's Regional Economic Outlook. Moreover, the IMF
expects GCC inflation to fall in the next two years, pencilling an
average of 2.9% in 2023 and 2.3% in 2024.

Lower inflation in GCC countries is mainly attributed to governmental
intervention such as price caps on certain products, subsidies on key
products or utilities and the strengthening of the US dollar on which
all GCC countries have pegged their currencies except for Kuwait, which
has linked its currency to a basket of currencies including the dollar.

In terms of sectoral inflation trends, the food and beverages
subcategory has been one of the most important categories in terms of
weight or growth in GCC inflation performance.

Among the GCC countries, inflation growth in the housing subcategory was
mixed albeit leaning to positive year-on-year growth in March-2023.
Qatar' housing costs rose by 8.7% on an annualised basis in March-2023,
the highest growth among the GCC countries.

Finding that in terms of the communication subcategory, the picture was
still mixed; it said both Bahrain and Qatar recorded decline in costs in
their communications inflation at -2.5% and -4.8% year-on-year in
March-2023, respectively.

Gulf Times Newspaper 2022

Load-Date: May 21, 2023

  End of Document

[]

BSP pauses on rate hiking cycle, cites inflation deceleration

ASEAN Tribune

May 18, 2023 Thursday

Copyright 2023 ASEAN Tribune All Rights Reserved

Length: 733 words

Body

18 May 2023 (Philippines News agency) After hiking key rates for nine
consecutive rate setting meetings since May 2022, Philippine monetary
authorities on Thursday maintained the Bangko Sentral ng Pilpinas' (BSP)
policy rates due mainly to deceleration of inflation rate.

Thus, the overnight reverse repurchase (RRP) rate is still at 6.25
percent, the overnight repurchase (RP) rate is at 6.75 percent and the
overnight deposit rate is at 5.75 percent.

'Based on the sum of new information and its assessment of the impact of
previous monetary policy actions, the Monetary Board decided that a
pause in monetary policy tightening was appropriate,' BSP Governor
Felipe Medalla said in a briefing on Thursday,

Thursday's pause in the policy-making MB's rate tightening moves is a
change after the hikes in the key rates from its record-low 2 percent,
with the upward adjustment aimed at helping address the jumps in
inflation rate.

Relatively, the MB slashed the central bank's average inflation forecast
for this year from 6 percent to 5.5 percent and the 2024 projection from
3.1 percent to 2.8 percent.

Medalla said these changes 'continue to reflect a gradual return of
inflation to the target band of 2-4 percent over the policy horizon.'

He said inflation expectations for 2024 to 2025 'are steady and within
the target range.'

He, on the other hand, noted that while domestic expansion remains
robust in the first three months of this year 'demand indicators have
also pointed to a potential moderation in the recent months, suggesting
that previous policy rate increases by the BSP continue to work their
way through the economy.'

He said the Board is also 'encouraged by the recent mounting of
whole-of-government actions to ease constraints on food supply.'

He, however, pointed out that 'even as headline inflation has continued
to decelerate with slower increases in the prices of food and
energy-related items, core inflation has only eased marginally.'

Domestic inflation rate hit its 14-year high if 8.7 percent last January
but has slowed since then, with the April figure already at 6.6 percent,
from month-ago's 7.6 percent.

Core inflation, which excludes volatile oil and food items, is almost
flat at 7.9 percent last April from month-ago's 8 percent.

Inflation rate is expected to slow to within-target levels as early as
in September this year.

Medalla said balance of risks to inflation outlook 'remains largely
tilted towards the upside owing to persistent constraints in the supply
of key food items, the potential impact of El Niño on food prices and
utility rates, as well as the effects of possible additional adjustments
in transportation fares and wages.'

These are, however, countered by the lower-than-expected global economic
recovery, he said.

'The Monetary Board also deems it necessary to keep the policy interest
rate at its current level over the near term, as ongoing price pressures
continue to warrant close monitoring. A prudent pause also allows
monetary authorities to further assess how macroeconomic and financial
conditions will evolve in view of tighter global financial conditions,'
he said.

Medalla said any changes in the BSP's key rates will partly be affected
by the developments on inflation, their inflation forecasts, and
adjustments in the Federal Reserve's key rates.

'So, in short, the more likely scenario is neither a cut nor an increase
in the next two or three policy meetings,' he said.

Asked for any changes in bank's reserve requirement ratio (RRR) as early
as June this year, Medalla said this is always on the table because the
country's RRR remains high and because the regulatory relief extended to
loans for small and medium enterprises (SMEs) will expire in end-June
this year.

'Right now, loans to medium and small scale industries qualify as
requires until they mature. So if we decide not to extend that policy
then we must offset it by cutting reserve requirements,' he said.

RRR have been reduced by a total of 200 basis points in 2020 to 12
percent for universal and commercial banks (U/KBs) as part of the
central bank's move to encourage lending during the pandemic to shore up
economic activities.

The central bank chief said changes in the RRR are related on operations
and not monetary policy.

'We adjust the size of our facilities to make sure that such changes in
the reserve requirement policy have no effect on money supply,' he
added.

Load-Date: May 19, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Benign inflation outlook may not prompt RBI to ease

The Economic Times

May 17, 2023 Wednesday

Copyright 2023 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd. All Rights Reserved

Section: STOCK IN NEWS

Length: 494 words

Byline: Gayatri Nayak

Body

Retail inflation at a 18-month low may be comforting for investors, but
the central bank's MPC when it meets in June will have its plate full -
the sudden reversal by the Australian central bank, an unlikely
softening by the Fed and domestic farm prices.Driven largely by base
effect, headline retail CPI inflation is expected to drop further with
the JUne quarter inflation below 5 percent. The Reserve Bank in its
April policy statement projected CPI inflation at 5.2 per cent for
2023-24, with April-June Q1 at 5.1 per cent.After six consecutive rate
hikes, the Reserve Bank in its April policy statement had announced a
pause in its benchmark policy repo rate at 6.5 percent largely on
account of easing retail inflation. April inflation ended at an 18 month
low of 4.7 percent.But as the RBI's monetary policy committee (MPC)
prepares itself for its next review in three weeks' time, more
challenges have emerged.

The US Fed raised rates even as it was expected to pause amidst a
financial stability risk and high inflation in the US along with the ECB
and the Australian central bank since the MPCs last meeting. The MPC
this time will also have to deal with upside risks to inflation due to
possible poor monsoon and impact of global climatic patterns. "A heat
wave in March and April and potential El Nino during summer monsoon
carries the risk of increasing food prices with a lag, which will
continue to be a threat to the inflation trajectory, in our view" said
Deutsche Bank Research. " A potential poor monsoon could pose a threat
to the inflation trajectory in the future" While the RBI is expected to
continue to pause its rates in its June meeting, the jury is still out
on the timing of the terminal rate. " We continue to maintain our base
case view that MPC will prefer to go for a prolonged pause in the June
policy review before cutting repo rate by 50bps in second half of FY' 24
particularly if the Fed pivots " said Tanvee Gupta Jain, India economist
at UBS. " Risks to our view would include "higher for-longer" Fed Funds
rates, in addition to inflation risks from a potential El Nio
phenomenon. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) said that El Nino
may impact the second half of the monsoon in July".Domestic
considerations besides tentative calm in the global markets, helped by a
US rate cycle likely slipping into an extended pause, lowers the
likelihood that the RBI policy committee will return to hikes in this
cycle Radhika Rao, senior economist and executive director, DBS Bank."
Benchmark rates are likely to be held unchanged In June. IIP output
growth slowed to a five month low, weighed by broader deceleration
amongst the sub-segments. Besides a softer IIP release, high frequency
data for April are largely supportive, backed by gains in PMI indices,
GST collections, power demand, amongst others, which will keep
policymakers from pivoting to an easing cycle in a hurry" Rao added. For
Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

Load-Date: May 16, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Learn how inflation could help some debtors

CE Noticias Financieras English

May 19, 2023 Friday

Copyright 2023 Content Engine, LLC.

All Rights Reserved

Copyright 2023 CE Noticias Financieras All Rights Reserved

Length: 410 words

Body

The consumer price index continues at high levels and continues to
affect the pockets of many Peruvians. However, it could be beneficial in
some situations.

The 12-month inflation rate dropped from 8.40% in March to 7.97% in
April, despite this, it is still above the upper limit of the target
range (between 1% and 3%), according to data from the Central Reserve
Bank (BCR).

This scenario is complicated for citizens, their payment capacity is
reduced and it is more difficult for them to acquire the basic basket of
goods for the month, since all products have increased in price, said
Ronald Casana, president of the Mipyme Committee of the Economists
Association of Lima.

However, the debt acquired does not increase with inflation, his monthly
payment remains the same, if the contract was with a fixed installment,
he said.

READ ALSO, Banks will restrict credits to individuals and companies this
quarter.

Thus, the economist explained that, in nominal terms, the installment
continues at the same level, but in real terms (i.e., discounting
inflation) the amount to be repaid is less than the original debt.

Casana also emphasized that inflation could help business owners, in
that they pass on the increase in prices to their final customers and,
therefore, receive a little more for their sales, while their
installment remains the same.

In contrast, creditors are disadvantaged because the money they receive
today, in an inflationary environment, is worth less than the amount
they initially borrowed.

Edmundo Lizarzaburu, professor of Administration and Finance at
Universidad ESAN, said that although the installment does not rise when
prices in the economy increase, interest rates do rise - as part of
monetary policy.

This makes new loans more expensive and, in contrast, hurts new
borrowers, he said.

In addition, products go up in price, but there is no correlation with
the evolution of salaries, which now allow the purchase of fewer goods
than before, he added.

Specialists agree that many families are having to allocate more of
their budget to basic expenses and have less money left to meet their
debts.

"Households must distribute their money between food and payment of
obligations, but with inflation they have less margin left; some choose
to reschedule their debts but others just delay their payments and this
is reflected in the delinquency rates," commented Casana.

READ ALSO San Isidro attracts more tenants and its rents go down, why is
this?

Load-Date: May 20, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Inflation rate in Nigeria hits 22.22%, highest in 17 years

Nigerian Tribune

May 16, 2023 Tuesday

Copyright 2023 African Newspapers of Nigeria Limited All Rights Reserved

Length: 843 words

Body

Headline inflation rate in Nigeria rose to 22.22 precent in April 2023,
buoyed by sharp increase in food inflation, signifying the highest rate
hike in 17 years.

Data released by the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) on Monday in
Abuja showed that food inflation increased to 24.61 percent
Year-on-Year, with prices of various food items increasing.

Nigeria's inflation rate keeps rising despite multiple interest rate
hikes by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), with the core inflation rate
standing at 20.14 percent in April 2023.

The NBS in its report said: 'In April 2023, the headline inflation rate
rose to 22.22 percent relative to March 2023 headline inflation rate
which was 22.04 percent. Looking at the movement, the April 2023
inflation rate showed an increase of 0.18 percent points when compared
to March 2023 headline inflation rate.

'Similarly, on a year-on-year basis, the headline inflation rate was
5.40 percent points higher compared to the rate recorded in April 2022,
which was 16.82 percent. This shows that the headline inflation rate on
a year-on-year basis increased in April 2023 when compared to the same
month in the preceding year (i.e., April 2022)'.

According to the NBS, on a month-on-month basis, the All-Items Index in
April 2023 was 1.91 percent, which was 0.05 percent points higher than
the 1.86 percent recorded in March 2023, meaning that in April 2023, on
average, the general price level was 0.05 percent higher relative to
March 2023.

'The food inflation rate in April 2023 was 24.61 percent on a
year-on-year basis, which was 6.24 percent points higher compared to the
18.37 percent recorded in April 2022.

'The rise in food inflation on a year-on-year basis was caused by
increases in prices of Oil and fat, Bread and cereals, Fish, Potatoes,
Yam and other tubers, Fruits, Meat, Vegetable, and Spirits', the NBS
explained.

It noted that on a month-on-month basis, the food inflation rate in
April 2023 was 2.13 percent, showing 0.06 percent points higher compared
to the 2.07 percent recorded in March 2023.

The average annual rate of food inflation for the 12 months ending April
2023 over the previous 12 months average was 23.22 percent, which was
4.35 percent points increase from 18.88 percent average annual rate of
change recorded in April 2022.

The NBS stated that 'All items less farm produce' or Core inflation,
which excludes the prices of volatile agricultural produce stood at
20.14 percent in April 2023 on a year-on-year basis, up by 5.96 percent
when compared to the 14.18 percent recorded in April 2022.

The highest increases were recorded in prices of Gas, Passenger
transport by Air, Liquid fuel, Vehicle spare parts, Fuels, and
lubricants for personal transport equipment, Medical services, Passenger
transport by road, etc.

On a month-on-month basis, the Core inflation rate was 1.46 percent in
April 2023. It stood at 1.84 percent in March 2023, down by 0.38
percent.

The average 12 months annual inflation rate was 17.91 percent for the 12
months ending April 2023, indicating 4.23 percent points higher than the
13.68 percent recorded in April 2022.

While reacting, Professor of finance and capital market at Nasarawa
State University, Uchenna Uwaleke, said:'The increase in headline
inflation to 22.22 percent for month of April did not come as a surprise
in view of the rising inflation trend in many economies partly caused by
the Russian Ukrainian conflict.

'Be that as it may, the reality is that the Nigerian case has a lot to
do with domestic structural factors.

'It is worth mentioning that the NBS, in its April Consumer Price index
report, provided a clue as to the major items driving the inflationary
pressure in Nigeria to include food, electricity, housing and transport.

'In the light of this revelation, what becomes clear is that the
monetary policy tightening stance of the CBN alone may not address the
challenge. The continuous rate hikes embarked upon since May 2022 has
not yielded the desired results.

'In order to increase food output and significantly bring down food
inflation, the need to tackle the seemingly intractable security
challenge facing the country as well as invest more in mechanised
Agriculture cannot be overemphasised.'

Also lending his voice, Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer,
Dignity Finance and Investment Ltd, Dr. Chijioke Ekechukwu, said:
'Inflation rate is expected to rise, considering the various drivers of
same. The drivers are still persisting to date. The cost of petroleum
products, especially AGO, has not reduced yet, which still keeps the
cost of production high. Exchange rate, although stabilised in the last
few weeks, is still high at N745 per dollar, and availability of foreign
currency remains a mirage.

'In my opinion, it is not all the time that we continue to use monetary
policy to check inflation rate. Some of the causes of high inflation,
like insecurity, require other measures different from monetary policy.
This is necessary to note so that we don't continue to tighten when we
are indeed meant to loosen the economy'.

Load-Date: May 17, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Bank must answer for inflation failure; established 1855

The Daily Telegraph (London)

May 25, 2023 Thursday

Edition 1, National Edition

Copyright 2023 Telegraph Media Group Limited All Rights Reserved

[]

Section: NEWS; Pg. 17

Length: 398 words

Body

The last time UK government bond yields reached this level, during the
brief premiership of Liz Truss, pundits savaged her administration for
its supposed irresponsibility, claiming that it was paying a "moron
premium" for its "reckless" fiscal policy. The Bank of England posed as
a knight in shining armour, intervening to stabilise markets and to
prevent poorly regulated pension funds from collapse.

Now, the Bank has nobody it can blame but itself. Bond yields rose
following the release of the latest inflation figures yesterday.
Although the headline rate fell, it constituted a significant overshoot
on expectations, and core inflation increased to its highest rate since
1992. Markets are anticipating that the Bank will have to raise interest
rates even higher than they had previously thought.

It is a further rebuke of the Bank of England's pitiful record. Whenever
inflation moves more than one percentage point away from target, there
is an exchange of letters between Threadneedle Street and the Treasury;
the volume of correspondence generated since mid-2021 may be
single-handedly keeping Royal Mail in business.

During this period, the Bank has attempted to pin the blame for
inflationary failures on anyone and anything other than its own actions,
including at various points the post-lockdown reopening, the war in
Ukraine and workers getting pay-rises. It should look closer to home.
The Bank was embarrassingly slow to react to rising prices and allowed
inflationary expectations to take hold.

Governor Andrew Bailey has finally conceded that the Bank has "very big
lessons to learn". This goes nowhere near far enough; he should commit
to making the results of these lessons public. If the Bank is to restore
its credibility, it must come clean about how it got things so wrong,
and how it will avoid repeating its mistakes. This will include
uncomfortable questions around its policies during lockdown, which
flooded a frozen economy with cash and looked suspiciously like
monetising government debt.

Supporters of the Bank claim that its operational independence has
resulted in significantly better monetary policy decisions. But too
often, politicians and the broadcast media have been afraid to question
its conduct, or criticise its obsession with issues such as net zero.
That is not sustainable. The Bank and Mr Bailey should be held
accountable for their failings.

Load-Date: May 25, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Inflation: the sign of an undeniable failure

CE Noticias Financieras English

May 14, 2023 Sunday

Copyright 2023 Content Engine, LLC.

All Rights Reserved

Copyright 2023 CE Noticias Financieras All Rights Reserved

Length: 523 words

Body

April inflation was 8.4%. This is more than double what the Minister of
Economy of the Nation, Sergio Massa, predicted when the consumer price
index for November 2022 was released, which was 4.9%. At that time, he
decided to interpret it as a sign that the trend was changing, thanks to
the measures he had implemented: his hypothesis was that inflation would
start a downward course and by April of this year it would be less than
four.

The opposite happened. Since December, when it reached 5.1%, it has been
rising month by month. In the historical series, it is common to see
that March represents a seasonal increase with respect to February and
April, which usually have lower records. The explanation that has always
been given is that March is the beginning of the real year, with the
return to the activity of the educational system and the new prices of
supplies, books, clothing and other related items, while April is
flatter and everything returns to calm.

That did not happen this time either. April had more inflation than
March, and everything indicates that May's inflation will be higher than
April's. Expectations are very negative. Expectations are very negative:
on the one hand, it is estimated that until October, at least, we will
have a monthly inflation that will not go below 7%; on the other hand,
nobody rules out that this month or next month we will have an inflation
that exceeds 10%.

Consequently, we are moving further and further away from the target set
by Massa at the end of last year. It is clear that we are going in the
opposite direction. However, the national authorities do not admit that
this represents a failure of their economic thinking and of the measures
taken against inflation and insist with inadmissible justifications.

For President Alberto Fernandez, inflation is explained by the
speculation of traders, who take advantage of what he defines as
"psychological inflation", which would condition consumers. According to
his perspective, the Minister of Economy is doing a great job.

Meanwhile, Minister Massa, who is playing in these weeks a presidential
candidacy for the ruling party, tried to link the increase in inflation
with political discussions, appealing to vulgar language: "We can't
afford any more trouble. We need political order for there to be
economic order", he affirmed.

It is true that the political disorder of the ruling party generates
economic uncertainty. But this does not exempt the minister of the area
from responsibility. There is no minister who is doing a brilliant job,
while a president and a motley pro-government leadership undermine him
daily with "friendly fire". They are all equally responsible.

The Frente de Todos made the wrong diagnosis and, therefore, the
solutions it proposed aggravated the problem. There are seven months to
go before a new president takes office and it is obvious that Fernandez
should not insist on measures that have already failed. The most logical
thing to do would be to define a transition plan with the opposition,
not because the ruling party could lose the elections but because of the
risk of uncontainable inflation.

Load-Date: May 15, 2023

  End of Document

[]

'University fees need to rise with inflation' university boss warns

walesonline.co.uk

May 24, 2023 Wednesday 1:52 PM GMT

Copyright 2023 Reach PLC All Rights Reserved

[]

Section: EDUCATION; Version:1

Length: 795 words

Byline: By, Abbie Wightwick

Highlight: Having fixed price £9,000 annual fees amid 10% inflation is
"not sustainable", said Bangor University VC Professor Edmund Burke

Body

University tuition fees paid by students need to rise with inflation,
the head of a Welsh university has told a Commons committee. The current
£9,000 a year to study for a degree in Wales -and £9,250 in England -is
not sustainable at a time when inflation is running at 10% Professor
Edmund Burke, Vice Chancellor of Bangor University told the Welsh
Affairs Committee.

Professor Burke said higher fees from international students are vital
to subsidise inadequate domestic tuition fee prices as well as research.
The Commons committee evidence session comes amid warnings from
universities in Wales about a lack of funding since Brexit leading to
job losses and fees remaining static for nearly a decade

Welsh universities appear to have been more heavily dependent on EU
structural funds than other universities elsewhere in the UK and as many
as 1,000 higher education jobs could be lost with EU structural funds
coming to an end, the committee was also told.

Read more: Students in Wales will have their loans written off 10 year
earlier than in England

In a passionate plea to raise domestic fees Professor Burke told the
committee: "There is an issue UK-wide around fees. We have inflation
running at around 10% and we have, across the UK, fixed fees. This is
unsustainable into the future, it simply cannot continue without
something giving at some point. It's a UK issue. There is a £250
differential in Wales, but it's a UK-wide issue and it's unsustainable.
Whether £9,000 or £9,2505 if it is fixed into the future it is
unsustainable and we need to address that."

He added that higher paying international students were vital to help
shore up gaps in research funding streams and domestic fees. "What is
making it work financially at this institution is international fees, at
the moment," he warned.

Professor Colin McInnes, Pro Vice Chancellor of research, knowledge
exchange and innovation at Aberystwyth University agreed that
international students are needed to "plug the gap" in other funding
streams.

Asked how much tuition fees should be and who should pay them and when,
Professor Burke said: "At least rising with inflation would have an
element of sustainability to it. You don't need to be an expert
economist to understand that prices are fixed and inflation is running
at 10% you are going to have a problem.

"How universities are funded is a question for government. The
government is going to have to make decisions about how to fund
universities but it is unsustainable at the moment and you cannot argue
it is. It can't be sustainable to have 10% inflation and fixed prices
year on year. There should be, in my view, an inflationary uplift.
£9,000 goes back many years. What would it be if it had risen in line
with inflation. Where you start that inflationary uplift is a matter for
debate. Funding universities is a matter for government and it needs
addressing urgently because it is unsustainable."

Earlier this year, the committee's chair, Rt Hon Stephen Crabb MP, wrote
to eight Welsh universities asking for their views about the ending of
EU structural funds. All eight said that it had been hard to find
replacement funds, and that as a result, it was likely that research
projects would end. On the UK Shared Prosperity Fund - the UK
Government's replacement to the European Social Fund and European
Regional Development Fund - the universities argued that applying for
funds was bureaucratic and complex, exacerbated by approaches varying
between local councils.

Professor Colin Riordan, Vice Chancellor of Cardiff University, told the
committee that Welsh universities appeared to be more reliant on EU
structural funds owing to deprived areas which made them eligible for
the funds.

To get our free daily briefing on the biggest issues affecting the
nation, Wales Matters, click here

Read next:

University staff offered new pay, pensions and work deal but will
continue strikes while they are considered Student fees must rise in
Wales, says university chief Welsh university ranked best in UK for
student life and teaching Wales' longest-serving university vice
chancellor leaves £240,000 a year job Wales' universities ranked in
latest Good University Guide

Load-Date: May 24, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Wholesale inflation hits near 3-year low in April

MINT

May 15, 2023 Monday

Copyright 2023 HT Media Ltd. All Rights Reserved

Length: 526 words

Dateline: New Delhi

Body

New Delhi, May 15 -- Wholesale inflation contracted for the first time
in three years in April as global commodity prices softened, easing
pressure on raw material costs used by factories. The decline in
wholesale prices indicates a further downward trend in consumer
inflation.

The wholesale price index declined 0.92% in April. That compares with an
expansion of 15.38% in April last year and 1.34% in March this year. WPI
last entered negative territory in July 2020 during the height of the
global lockdown aimed at curbing the spread of the coronavirus.

Data released on Friday showed retail inflation slowed to an 18-month
low in April, remaining comfortably below the Reserve Bank of India's
upper tolerance limit for the second consecutive month, driven by a
decline in food prices. Retail inflation eased to 4.7% in April from
5.66% in the preceding month.

Wholesale inflation has eased amid a sharp decline in global crude
prices. Brent crude declined to less than $85 a barrel in April from
over $100 a barrel during the year earlier.

Economists pointed out that the manufactured products category continued
in the deflationary zone for the second consecutive month due to lower
basic metals, chemicals, textiles and manufactured food products prices.

Fuel and power inflation also significantly eased below 1% due to lower
prices for LPG, kerosene and other mineral oils.

"Manufactured products have benefited much from the decline in
international commodity prices. This trend will likely continue as weak
global growth momentum will maintain downward pressure on prices. As a
result, even oil prices are seen weakening, which in turn will provide
support to the fuel and power inflation index," said Madan Sabnavis,
chief economist at Bank of Baroda.

The inflation rate in the manufactured product category in April
contracted by 2.42% against an expansion of 0.77% in March.

Rajani Sinha, chief economist of CareEdge Group, said that the
deflationary trend could continue for the next 2-3 months, with the
full-year WPI inflation averaging in the range of 1-2%. A lower WPI
print could help in pulling retail inflation down with its lagged impact
on the core CPI inflation, Sinha added.

Meanwhile, inflation in food articles also eased to 3.54% in April,
against 5.48% in March. Experts, however, said that the trajectory of
food prices would be driven by the prevailing heatwaves and the
intensity of monsoon rainfall.

Core inflation, which excludes volatile components such as food and
energy prices, also declined, remaining in deflationary territory for
the second consecutive month in April, contracting 1.8% in April from
0.3% in March.

Economists now expect RBI to keep policy rates unchanged in the next
monetary policy meeting in June.

Last month, RBI's monetary policy committee paused the rate-hike cycle
by keeping the key policy rate unchanged at 6.5%. RBI raised rates six
times in a row to tame inflation before it decided to pause last month.

Published by HT Digital Content Services with permission from MINT. For
any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement,
please contact Editor at contentservices@htlive.com

Load-Date: May 15, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Fed Chairman warns that US inflation is "far above" target

CE Noticias Financieras English

May 19, 2023 Friday

Copyright 2023 Content Engine, LLC.

All Rights Reserved

Copyright 2023 CE Noticias Financieras All Rights Reserved

Length: 328 words

Body

The president of the Federal Reserve(Fed, the US central bank), Jerome
Powell, said that inflation in the United States is "far above" the
target of 2% a year, when drawing a scenario of comparison with the
situation of the cost of living of Americans in the late 1970s.
According to him, it is the obligation of monetary authorities to
control the cost of living in economies and restore price stability,
which is the foundation of a strong economy.

"Price stability is really the basis of a strong economy and the economy
doesn't work for anybody without price stability," Powell said, while
commenting on lessons from the late 1970s, during the Thomas Laubach
Research Conference, created in honor of the legacy of Thomas Laubach,
former director of the Fed's Monetary Affairs Division.

The Fed chairman that at that time high inflation was "a permanent part
of the landscape," something everyone had to accept and whose costs were
very high. However, then the Fed acted to combat it and restored price
stability in the United States. "When we have high inflation it is the
responsibility and obligation of the central bank to restore and sustain
price stability," he said.

He said that although the cost of living for Americans today is not as
high as it was in 1970, inflation is still well above the Fed's target
of 2 percent a year. Powell said that many people are experiencing high
inflation for the first time in their lives and that it imposes a lot of
hardship, reduces purchasing power, especially, for those on the margins
of the economy.

"And that's why the committee is so strongly committed to returning
inflation to our 2 percent target. We believe that failure to reduce
inflation would not only prolong the pain, but also ultimately increase
the social costs of returning to price stability, causing even greater
harm to households and businesses," Powell said. "We intend to avoid
this by remaining steadfast in the pursuit of our goals," he concluded.

Load-Date: May 20, 2023

  End of Document

[]

CITY BETS ON HIGHER RATE BY AUTUMN; FORECAST-BUSTING INFLATION PUTS BANK
IN TIGHT SPOT

City A.M.

May 25, 2023 Thursday

Edition 1, National Edition

Copyright 2023 City A.M. All Rights Reserved

[]

Section: NEWS; Pg. 1

Length: 407 words

Byline: JACK BARNETT

Body

THE BANK of England will have to hike interest rates to a peak of 5.5
per cent to tame steaming inflation, markets bet yesterday, after fresh
numbers showed price pressures are withstanding rate rises.

Inflation dropped to 8.7 per cent in April, down from March's shock rise
to 10.1 per cent, the Office for National Statistics said.

Last month's fall meant the rate of price increases slumped out of the
double digits for the first time since last summer.

But the figure smashed market expectations of a drop to 8.2 per cent and
the Bank of England's projected fall to 8.4 per cent.

Core inflation - which strips out volatile food and energy price
changes - leapt unexpectedly to 6.8 per cent, the highest level since
March 1992.

Food prices rose nearly a fifth, the quickest pace in around four
decades.

Markets wobbled in response to the inflation overshoot, with the yield
on the two-year gilt surging as much as 25 basis points and the FTSE 100
slumping around two per cent.

Sterling picked up gains before weakening around 0.15 per cent against
the US dollar.

Bank governor Andrew Bailey yesterday claimed a "substantial amount" of
the price surge is being driven by "imported inflation".

But the shock core inflation jump and services prices climbing 6.9 per
cent over the last year suggests domestic factors are now running the
show.

Bailey said the Bank's forthcoming interest rate decisions will be
"driven by how the evidence shapes up".

The governor and the rest of the Monetary

Policy Committee have been slammed for failing to forecast the strength
of inflation accurately.

Economists yesterday judged the upside inflation surprise as nailing on
a 13th straight rate rise on 22 June.

Analysts at investment bank Nomura said they no "longer feel the data
allow the Bank of England to stop after just one more hike", adding they
"see a terminal rate of 5.25 per cent being reached by September".

Experts at consultancy Capital Economics agreed with that assessment,
warning such a move by Bailey and co would make "a recession at some
point more likely".

Earlier this week, the International Monetary Fund ditched its recession
call for the UK and raised 2023 GDP growth to 0.4 per cent from a 0.3
per cent contraction.

Hiking the rate to as much as 5.5 per cent - from its current 4.5 per
cent - raises the possibility that the UK could still see a contraction,
with the higher cost of borrowing choking off growth prospects and the
flow of credit.

Graphic

Bank governor Andrew Bailey

Load-Date: May 25, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Campos Neto: raising the inflation target would not have a positive
effect

CE Noticias Financieras English

May 22, 2023 Monday

Copyright 2023 Content Engine, LLC.

All Rights Reserved

Copyright 2023 CE Noticias Financieras All Rights Reserved

Length: 443 words

Body

The president of the Central Bank, Roberto Campos Neto, said on Monday
that the public disagreements between the monetary authority and the
federal government are among the factors that keep inflation
expectations high.

"The noise between the government and the Central Bank has generated
uncertainty regarding the Central Bank's ability to achieve its
objectives," he said.

In addition, according to Campos Neto, there is uncertainty in the
market about the possibility that the inflation target will be changed.

"The component of uncertainty about the target is predominant, we need
to see how this will develop. But I think that we have elements to start
seeing this inflation expectation falling," he added.

Advertising Space

However, the Focus Bulletin of this Monday brings a reduction in the
inflation forecast of the financial market for the National Wide
Consumer Price Index (IPCA), which fell from 6.03% to 5.8% this year.
For 2024, the inflation projection remained at 4.13%. For 2025 and 2026,
the forecasts are 4% for both years.

The president of the Central Bank says he believes that raising the
inflation target would not bring positive effects.

"Changing the target upwards now would not generate flexibility," he
said.

Defined by the National Monetary Council (CMN), the inflation target is
3.25% for this year, with a tolerance interval of 1.5 percentage points
up or down. That is, the lower limit is 1.75% and the upper, 4.75%.

The CMN is made up of the ministers of Finance and Planning and the
president of the Central Bank.

Despite arguing that monetary policy and fiscal policy should be in what
he called harmony, Campos Neto pointed out that the actions of the
government and the Central Bank have important differences.

"It is important to separate the political cycle from the economic
cycle. We need to have harmony between the fiscal and monetary cycles,
but they don't always have the same cycle. Intertemporally, the cycles
are different. The time of effect is different," he said.

The president of the Central Bank also said that he doesn't see any
problems in the monetary authority's actions suffering criticism, such
as the ones made on several occasions by president Lula.

"The president has the right to get into a debate about interest rates
that is happening in many other countries", he pondered when asked about
the subject.

Campos Neto, however, defended the actions of the Central Bank,
especially during last year, when the basic interest rate was raised to
contain inflation.

"If we didn't have autonomy, the Brazilian election period would have
more volatility in the markets. Obviously it is difficult to prove
this," he said.

Load-Date: May 23, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Powell Says Inflation Remains Too High

The New York Times

May 19, 2023 Friday 19:02 EST

Copyright 2023 The New York Times Company All Rights Reserved

Section: BUSINESS

Length: 698 words

Byline: Alan Rappeport and Joe Rennison

Highlight: The Fed chair said that it would take “some time” for
inflation to moderate and that the central bank would continue to look
at data as it considers whether to raise rates next month.

Body

The Fed chair said that it would take “some time” for inflation to
moderate and that the central bank would continue to look at data as it
considers whether to raise rates next month.

Jerome H. Powell, the Federal Reserve chair, said on Friday that
inflation continued to be “far above” the central bank’s target but that
policymakers “haven’t made any decisions” about whether to raise rates
at their next meeting in June.

The comments, at the Fed’s annual Thomas Laubach Research Conference,
came as businesses and investors around the world are trying to gauge
whether the Fed is preparing to pause its campaign to raise borrowing
costs amid signs that inflation is easing and the U.S. economy is
cooling.

Mr. Powell did not offer a clear signal on the path of interest rates,
but said the Fed remained committed to bringing inflation closer to its
2 percent target.

“The data continues to support the committee’s view that bringing
inflation down will take some time,” he said.

Still, Mr. Powell did note that recent turmoil in the banking sector had
prompted lenders to pull back on providing credit, which will probably
weigh on economic growth. That could reduce the need to raise interest
rates as high as they otherwise would need to be lifted.

But Mr. Powell made clear that the Fed, which will meet on June 13-14,
had not yet determined its next move.

“Until very recently, it’s been clear that further policy firming would
be required,” Mr. Powell said. “As policy has become more restrictive,
the risks of doing too much versus too little are becoming more
balanced.”

He added: “So we haven’t made any decisions about the extent to which
additional policy firming will be appropriate.”

The Fed has raised rates aggressively over the past year, bringing them
above 5 percent for the first time in 15 years. While inflation has
shown signs of moderating, it is still far higher than the Fed — and
consumers — would like.

The two-year Treasury yield, which is indicative of where investors
expect interest rates to land, fell more than 0.1 percentage points
after Mr. Powell’s comments, having risen by roughly the same amount
before he spoke. That was a big single-day swing for an asset that
typically fluctuates by hundredths of a percentage point.

The S&amp;P 500 slumped 0.8 percent from its earlier high, before a
slight recovery to leave it about 0.1 percent lower for the day. The
index still recorded a gain of 1.6 percent for the week, its best weekly
showing since the end of March.

Financial markets were also swayed by news elsewhere, including
lawmakers’ challenge to resolve the debt ceiling crisis. Reports that
Treasury Secretary Janet L. Yellen recently told bank chiefs that more
mergers might be necessary also appeared to spook investors.

Ms. Yellen’s comments echoed remarks she made last week in Japan, where
she told Reuters, “This might be an environment in which we’re going to
see more mergers.”

Friday’s developments undid some of investors’ expectations about future
increases in interest rates after earlier comments from other
policymakers.

The president of the Dallas Fed, Lorie Logan, said this week that the
current state of the economy, based on recent data, left another rate
increase in June a possibility.

“The data in coming weeks could yet show that it is appropriate to skip
a meeting,” Ms. Logan said in a speech on Thursday. “As of today,
though, we aren’t there yet.”

In turn, the probability drawn from bets in interest rate markets of a
further rate increase next month nudged higher this week, though
expectations are still tilted toward the Fed holding interest rates
where they are.

Instead, investors have begun betting on the current level of interest
rates remaining where it is for longer. They had been pricing in a
quarter-point cut to rates as soon as September and two subsequent
quarter-point cuts before the end of the year. They are now betting on
one to two cuts to rates toward the end of the year.

PHOTO: Jerome H. Powell, left, the Federal Reserve chair, and Ben
Bernanke, the former head of the central bank, at a conference in
Washington on Friday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY Saul Loeb/Agence France-Presse —
Getty Images FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

Load-Date: May 19, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Inflation set for sharp fall, says Bailey; Bank governor delivers upbeat
forecast

The Times (London)

May 18, 2023 Thursday

Edition 1, National Edition

Copyright 2023 Times Newspapers Limited All Rights Reserved

[]

Section: BUSINESS; Pg. 35

Length: 521 words

Byline: Mehreen Khan

Body

The UK's double-digit inflation has begun to come down, figures out next
week are expected to show, and it will continue to fall sharply in
coming months, according to the governor of the Bank of England.

Andrew Bailey said at the British Chambers of Commerce's annual
conference that a big drop in energy prices would soon be felt in the
measurement of annual inflation, which calculates the difference in
price rises this year compared to the surge after Russia's invasion of
Ukraine.

New inflation figures for April will be released next week and are
expected to show a decline to about 9.5 per cent after the
stronger-than-expected 10.1 per cent recorded in March.

These dynamics mean that "energy prices should begin to pull overall
inflation down rather than push it up as they have done over the past
two years," the governor said.

"In the March [inflation] release, the prices of electricity, gas and
other fuels were more than 85 per cent higher than a year ago,
contributing more than three percentage points to headline inflation.
That contribution is likely to drop to about one percentage point in
next week's data as large increases in energy prices from a year ago
drop out of the annual calculations," he said.

The Bank's monetary policy committee (MPC) increased borrowing costs
last week for a 12th consecutive meeting to 4.5 per cent, warning that
further rate rises might be needed if some inflationary pressures proved
persistent.

Bailey said that after three significant economic shocks in the form of
the pandemic, an energy-price crisis and a shrinking labour market, the
UK was suffering from a fourth shock in the form of spiralling food
prices. However, he warned that runaway food prices, which have heaped
pressure on the cost of living, would be slow to fall back to normal
levels this year.

Food prices have risen at a record annual pace of 19.1 per cent this
year, blindsiding the MPC and many economists. Bailey said that food
price inflation would be slow to come down and continue to exert an
upward pressure on overall inflation.

"Increases in energy prices and poor harvests, in addition to Russia's
invasion of Ukraine, have played a role throughout the Continent," he
said.

Financial markets this week reduced their expectation for more interest
rate rises from the Bank and now expect only one more increase to the
base rate in June. Bailey said that the MPC would be closely watching
dynamics in the labour market, which has driven part of the UK's
persistently high inflation.

The Bank's ratesetters are also paying more attention to measurements of
core inflation, which strip out food and energy prices, to provide a
better sense of the strength of domestically driven price pressures.
Core inflation was 6.2 per cent in March and will not fall as fast as
headline inflation, Bailey said.

"As headline inflation falls, these second-round effects are unlikely to
go as quickly as they appeared," he added. "So even as headline
inflation is coming down, the MPC pays attention to indicators of
inflation persistence, including labour market tightness and wage
growth, and services price inflation."

Load-Date: May 18, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Carstens calls for continued fight against inflation for as long as
necessary

CE Noticias Financieras English

May 21, 2023 Sunday

Copyright 2023 Content Engine, LLC.

All Rights Reserved

Copyright 2023 CE Noticias Financieras All Rights Reserved

Length: 441 words

Body

Link to Image

If high global inflation rates are not controlled, the credibility and
independence of central banks around the world are at risk, warned the
head of the Bank for International Settlements (BIS), Agustín Carstens.

The strong response of central banks to inflation must be sustained as
long as necessary to bring it to the monetary authorities' target, he
said.

YOU MAY BE INTERESTED: Banxico puts rate hike on pause... finally

He emphasized that if the tightening of monetary conditions, through
higher interest rates, is not properly sustained, the recent increase in
global inflation could lead to a high inflation regime that would be
increasingly difficult to stop.

The Mexican who leads the institution that offers its financial
operation services to the world's central banks, warned that obstacles
may arise in the task of bringing inflation to levels compatible with
the targets.

"It is essential to bring it to the target, otherwise the credibility of
monetary policy and of the autonomy of the central banks responsible for
directing it will be questioned," he reiterated.

Participating in a high-level seminar organized by Brazil's central
bank, he explained that when the public trusts the central bank to do
what is necessary to keep inflation close to the target, then that
target, rather than current inflation, becomes a key reference for
making price and wage decisions.

The Bank of Mexico's single target, for example, is to achieve a 3%
inflation target with an allowable range of +/-1 percentage point. The
U.S. Federal Reserve (Fed) has a dual objective of maximum employment
and price stability at 2% point.

While central banks do not directly control inflation, they can
influence it with their policy tools to balance it, he detailed.

"It has therefore been appropriate that most central banks around the
world have been tightening monetary policy through higher interest rates
to restore price stability," Carstens stated.

From the beginning of his participation, he warned that he would draw on
his experience as finance minister and governor of the Bank of Mexico to
argue the relevance of preserving the institutional strength of central
banks. This, to illustrate how public policies can be successful in the
long term and how price stability can be achieved.

The BIS is the oldest international financial organization in the world;
it began operations in 1930 and offers its financial operation services
to central banks. Currently, 60 monetary institutions and central banks
are active members, and it is led by the first official from an emerging
economy, which is Mexico, Agustín Carstens.

With media information

Load-Date: May 22, 2023

  End of Document

[]

India's WPI inflation at (-) 0.92% in April, lowest in 34-months

Millennium Post Newspaper

May 17, 2023 Wednesday

Copyright 2023 FFC Information Solution Private Limited All Rights
Reserved

Length: 491 words

Dateline: New Delhi, 2023-05-17 02:16:01

Body

New Delhi: Wholesale prices in India fell for the first time in almost
three years in April, as softening global commodity prices brought down
food, fuel, and other input costs for producers. WPI inflation has been
on a declining trend for the last 11 months and came in at (-) 0.92 per
cent in April. This is the lowest level of wholesale price index (WPI)
since June 2020, when inflation was at (-) 1.81 per cent.

A negative WPI inflation, technically termed as deflation, means that
overall wholesale prices have been falling year-on-year. The high base
at 15.38 per cent in April 2022, also contributed to the decline in
wholesale inflation in April this year. "Decline in the rate of
inflation in April, 2023 is primarily contributed by fall in prices of
basic metals, food products, mineral oils, textiles, non-food articles,
chemical & chemical products, rubber & plastic products and paper &
paper products," the commerce and industry ministry said on Monday. WPI
inflation was at 1.34 per cent in March. April also saw easing in prices
across commodities - food, non-food, fuel and power, and manufactured
items. Inflation in food articles eased to 3.54 per cent in April,
against 5.48 per cent in March. In the food articles category, prices of
cereals, wheat, fruits, milk and egg, meat and fish declined over the
previous month. Inflation in vegetables was (-) 1.50 per cent, potato
(-) 18.66 per cent, onion (-)18.41 per cent and wheat was at 7.27 per
cent in April 2023. Fuel and power basket inflation eased to 0.93 per
cent in April from 8.96 per cent in March. In manufactured products,
inflation was (-) 2.42 per cent, as against 0.77 per cent in March. The
deceleration in WPI comes in line with the easing of April retail
inflation which came in at an 18-month low of 4.70 per cent. Barclays in
a research note said it expects WPI inflation to continue to moderate as
easing commodity prices drive input costs lower. "We think the
moderation in retail inflation (which we expect to continue) suggests a
pause is likely in the next Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) meeting in
August. Easing wholesale price pressures indicate that input price
inflation is also easing," Barclays said. Last month, the RBI paused its
interest rate hike, holding the benchmark rate at 6.50 per cent. It
projected retail inflation to average 5.2 per cent in current fiscal
year. The next three-day meeting of RBI's monetary policy committee is
scheduled on June 6-8. CareEdge Ratings Chief Economist Rajani Sinha
said the deflationary trend is expected to continue for the next 2-3
months with the full-year WPI inflation averaging in the range of 1-2
per cent. "A lower WPI print could help in pulling retail inflation down
with its lagged impact on the core CPI inflation," Sinha said. Ladderup
Wealth Management MD Raghvendra Nath said the fall in WPI is likely to
have a positive impact on retail prices as well in terms of cooling them
down.

Load-Date: May 18, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Bank of England admits it made errors in inflation forecasts

The Independent (United Kingdom)

May 23, 2023 Tuesday 10:20 AM GMT

Copyright 2023 Independent Digital News and Media Limited All Rights
Reserved

[]

Section: UK POLITICS,UK; Version:4

Length: 832 words

Byline: Adam Forrest and Archie Mitchell

Highlight: The Bank’s top economist Huw Pill acknowledged forecasts for
inflation were ‘too low’, leading to mistakes in its decision-making

Body

The Bank of England has “very big” lessons to learn, it said after
admitting errors in its UK inflation forecasts.

The central bank’s top economist, Huw Pill, acknowledged its forecasts
for inflation were “too low”, leading to mistakes in its
decision-making.

And governor Andrew Bailey said: “I think there are some very big
lessons in how we operate monetary policy in the face of very big
shocks.”

The admissions came as the Bank faced a grilling from MPs on soaring
interest rates, which have spelled misery for borrowers – including
millions of mortgage-holders.

It also came as the International Monetary Fund (IMF ) said Britain is
no longer heading for recession this year, upgrading its forecast.

The international body said the UK’s economic outlook remains “subdued”
– but is now forecasting growth of 0.4 per cent in 2023, having previous
estimated a 0.3 per cent contraction.

The IMF said the change reflects “higher-than-expected resilience” in
both demand and supply – pointing to improved confidence because of
post-Brexit plans and declining energy costs.

Chancellor Jeremy Hunt heralded the IMF report as a “big upgrade” for
the country’s prospects and credited the Rishi Sunak government with
taking “action to restore stability and tame inflation”.

In an update to recent forecasts, the IMF said: “Buoyed by resilient
demand in the context of declining energy prices, the UK economy is
expected to avoid a recession and maintain positive growth in 2023.”

However, IMF economists made no change to the growth forecast for 2024,
with the economy set to grow by only 1 per cent next year, 2 per cent
the following two years before returning to a long-run growth rate of
around 1.5 per cent.

“Growth is projected to rise gradually to 1 per cent in 2024, as
disinflation softens the hit to real incomes, and to average about 2 per
cent in 2025 and 2026, mainly on the back of a projected easing in
monetary and financial conditions,” the IMF said.

Mr Hunt, who met IMF managing director Kristalina Georgieva at Downing
Street on Tuesday, said the body praised “our childcare reforms, the
Windsor Framework and business investment incentives”.

He added: “If we stick to the plan, the IMF confirm our long-term growth
prospects are stronger than in Germany, France and Italy – but the job
is not done yet.”

In a further boost, Mr Bailey said inflation had “turned the corner”,
suggesting the rate at which prices are rising will start to ease.
Official inflation figures on Wednesday are expected to show the rate of
consumer price inflation slowed to below double-digits last month.

Labour’s shadow chief Treasury secretary Pat McFadden said the IMF
report revealed “the fragility of the UK economy – highlighting the
slowdown in economic activity since last year and stubbornly high
prices”.

The opposition frontbencher said there was also “uncertainty dragging
down growth” after the Liz Truss’s government’s disastrous Budget in
autumn 2022.

The latest IMF report endorsed the UK plugging skills shortages with
immigrants, amid a fierce debate among Tories about government policy
ahead of the publication of new data this week on net migration.

According to the IMF, the UK should look at “fine-tuning the immigration
system to alleviate sectoral and skilled labour shortages and enhance
labour market flexibility”.

Ministers have come under pressure from some quarters to set out plans
to bring down net migration, with the Office for National Statistics set
to publish annual figures this week that could show it reached at least
700,000.

Excellent meeting with UK Chancellor @Jeremy_Hunt in London today. The
UK authorities have taken decisive actions to promote macroeconomic and
financial stability and are focused on the fight against inflation and
on reforms to boost productivity, labor supply, and investment.
https://t.co/TuipC6Nl0K — Kristalina Georgieva (@KGeorgieva) May 23,
2023

The IMF also appeared to back Mr Sunak’s approach to post-Brexit issues,
hailing the UK and the EU finally reaching a deal on the Northern
Ireland Protocol.

The body also positively noted the “more measured approach for retained
EU laws” as something that will benefit business.

The recent scaling back of post-Brexit plans to scrap EU laws prompted
backbench anger among Conservatives, but there have been signs in recent
months of better relations between London and Brussels.

In the report, the IMF expressed hopes that the UK can return to the
EU’s Horizon science programme, saying it can boost small and
medium-sized firms’ access to finance and research and design support.

In a gloomier assessment, the IMF said Britain could experience high
interest rates for some time to come as the Bank of England battles
inflation.

The Bank increased the base interest rate to 4.5 per cent earlier this
month, the 12th rise in a row. The IMF said “further monetary tightening
will likely be needed, and rates may have to remain high for longer to
bring down inflation more assuredly”.

Load-Date: May 23, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Inflation: exploring its real nature

CE Noticias Financieras English

May 9, 2023 Tuesday

Copyright 2023 Content Engine, LLC.

All Rights Reserved

Copyright 2023 CE Noticias Financieras All Rights Reserved

Length: 877 words

Body

Economist Pad - School of Management Universidad de Piura

First: Unlike other regions and economies, Peruvian inflation is not
showing a strong downward trend.

In the last nine months, for example, U.S. inflation has gone from 9.1%
to 5%; in Brazil it has been reduced by almost half, also bordering
around 5%. Peru, in contrast, has kept it almost frozen at around 8%.
Despite the April figures, there is still no clear downward trend.

Second: It must be understood that, unlike before, the origin of our
inflation is no longer external; the imported component is no longer the
relevant one.

Today, the aftermath of internal events linked to the socio-political
disorder in the south of the country and the impact of natural disasters
in the north play a leading role in its explanation. The national supply
chain, productive dynamics and basic infrastructure were affected.
Controlling inflation under these circumstances is very difficult.

Third: The downward trend in food and energy prices in international
markets, accompanied by a smooth upward evolution of the exchange rate,
are elements that have contributed to contain inflationary dynamics.

Nevertheless, inflation has not eased as expected. According to our BCR,
up to March of this year, inflation in the segment of products subject
to international trade increased by 6.4%, below the average inflation
rate of 8.4%.

Fourth: What is certain and worrisome is that inflation linked
exclusively to the food group has been developing at a double-digit
annual rate for the last twelve months. Moreover, recently, for every
point of inflation, food has been rising at a rate close to double.

As is well known in Peru, households in the lowest socioeconomic group
spend more than 60% of their expenditures on food. Under these
circumstances, the inflation of the poor has little to do with the
average expressed periodically by the general CPI.

Fifth: Until today, officially in our country there is no clearly
defined calculation of stratified inflation for each socioeconomic
group.

Inflation is calculated for 26 cities and, at the national level,
nothing else. This is a shortcoming that is not observed in other
countries in the region and, moreover, it is a limitation that prevents
the government from adequately targeting social compensation policies.

It is incredible that in the 21st century this has not been corrected.
We make social policy almost blindly, unbelievable.

Sixth: Our central bank has done its job by trying to lower the
inflationary rate. It has progressively increased its reference rate and
sterilized part of the credit expansion associated with the "Reactiva
Perú" program.

In truth, this is what all central banks around the world have done.
However, our BCR has been cautious and the increase in its reference
interest rate is considered one of the least aggressive in the region in
real terms, all this in order to be prudent and not to extremely damage
the already battered productive and investment dynamics.

Seventh: It should also be recognized that the BCR's effort is partially
limited. Although well oriented and praiseworthy, it is less effective
than commonly understood. This is so because the presence of informality
and scarce bankarization generate limitations to the traditional
channels of monetary transmission.

Their instruments only affect and reach a fraction of our economy. On
the other hand, the origin of our inflation compromises an undesired
supply shock, which further limits its effectiveness.

Eighth: The transitory nature of our inflationary process is questioned
to this day. The uncertain nature and the possibility of recurrence of
socio-political and climatological instabilities and new imbalances on
the international front are always present.

No one, in this context, can say anything categorical about their
non-recurrence. It is not the best thing to emphasize the concept of the
transitory nature of our inflation; we could lose credibility.

Ninth: Reaching an inflation target of less than 3% per year will take
time, persistence and patience. The inflation rate will undoubtedly fall
back in the coming months and for this to happen it is enough that
international quotations are sustained, that the exchange rate does not
show strong volatility and that the evolution of the increase in the
wholesale price index (WPI) remains below the traditional CPI.

The central issue is to ask ourselves how fast it will contract and how
long it will take to align it to our target range between 1% and 3% per
year. 2023 is almost impossible, 2024 perhaps. The internal environment
will be the determining factor.

Tenth: We must be aware that the more social upheavals, the more
inflation; the more political instability, the more uncertainty and
inflation.

We have to rethink these two fronts in order to give sustainability to
the fulfillment of our BCR's inflation target. The damage that the
irresponsible political front has been causing is immense. Worst of all,
they do it in the name of the poor. Unbelievable.

Unlimited benefits with your subscription to Gestión! Enjoy up to 70%
discount on more than 300 Subscribers Club promotions, which you can
also use as many times as you want. Get to know them here. Not a
subscriber yet? purchase your plan here.

Load-Date: May 10, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Russia's inflation down to 2.3% in April

Intellinews - Russia Today

May 16, 2023 Tuesday

Copyright 2023 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC All Rights
Reserved

[]

Length: 342 words

Body

Annual consumer price inflation in April 2023 in Russia declined further
to 2.3% year on year after 3.5% y/y seen in March, posting the lowest
CPI since February 2018, according to the latest data from RosStat
statistics agency. (chart)

In April in month-on-month terms inflation was 0.4%, in line with March
and within market expectations, analysts at Renaissance Capital
commented. The seasonally adjusted and annualised price growth remained
around the CBR's projection of 4%, the analysts estimate.

"The decisive contributor to the price growth since the end of last year
is the service sector, which has been growing at an average of 1.0% per
month over the last 6 months," RenCap notes.

At the same time, so far inflationary pressures remained low in May,
with the latest weekly data reflecting zero consumer price growth,
implying that annual inflation remains at 2.3%, the analysts estimate.

RenCap expects "to see a slight acceleration in annual inflation in the
coming months (to above 4% from August onwards) from a 2022 base".
Inflationary pressures are expected to remain subdued throughout 2023,
with annual rate forecasted at 4.6% in December, in the lower range of
the CBR's latest guidance of 4.5%-6.5%.

As followed by bne IntelliNews, despite inflation rapidly converging to
the long-term target of 4% in March, the head of the CBR Elvira
Nabiullina did not rush to confirm the disinflationary trend, let alone
signal any dovish policy shifts. She attributed the plunge in inflation
to seasonal factors and the high comparison base (price growth spiked at
over 16% in March 2022).

The board of the CBR at the policy meeting of April 28 resolved to
maintain the key interest rate at 7.5%, taking no monetary policy action
for the fifth consecutive meeting and maintaining the rate unchanged
since September 2022.

In the press release accompanying the latest policy decision, the CBR
doubled down on the previous hawkish guidance and said that it is ready
to hike the rate if necessary to maintain inflation within the 4% goal.

Load-Date: May 17, 2023

  End of Document

[]

'Public pay deal should match inflation'

Irish Examiner

May 13, 2023 Saturday

Copyright 2023 Landmark Digital Media Ltd. All Rights Reserved

[]

Section: NEWS; Pg. 4

Length: 425 words

Byline: Imasha Costa

Body

Public sector workers want their next pay increase to match inflation
and are willing to ballot for industrial action if the offer from the
Government falls below that.

That is according to a survey by the country's largest public sector
union Fórsa, to which 20,000 people responded - a quarter of its
membership.

More than 80% of respondents said the upcoming pay negotiations should
yield increases that match inflation.

It found a clear majority are in favour of Fórsa organising a ballot for
industrial action if negotiated increases are below that.

The overwhelming majority said it is important that future pay
negotiations cover any shortfall experienced because of the withdrawal
of Government cost-of-living supports, such as energy credits.

Kevin Callinan, Fórsa general secretary and president of the Irish
Congress of Trade Unions, told RTÉ's Morning Ireland that he was "blown
away" by the results of the survey in relation to the need for increases
to match inflation.

He did not say whether Fórsa would be looking for a 6%-7% pay increase
to match inflation before the current public services pay agreement
expires at the end of the year. He said he expects talks on a new pay
deal to start in the coming weeks.

"In relation to the public service, there's a number of things that we
need to factor in," said Mr Callinan.

"Firstly, we've been very clear that the outcome last year did not match
inflation. We had inflation coming in around 8% at the maximum the
increases last year were 5%."

The "real message" from the survey, said Mr Callinan, is that people are
struggling to pay their bills and to pay for groceries. "What we're
saying very clearly is workers generally are losing out in terms of
living standards," he said.

"We're a very wealthy country now, very rich country, and we have a
Government presiding over a situation where living standards are falling
generally, both in the private and the public sector. In the public
sector for this year, we negotiated the increase, totalling 3.5%."

Mr Callinan rejected suggestions that wage increases led to increased
inflation. He said the ECB and OECD now recognise that profit-taking is
"the great driver of inflation" rather than wage increases, explaining
that "workers should bear the brunt of this".

Fórsa will be telling the Government that they need to look at the
situation and will have to "make good" on the withdrawal of any supports
such as the energy credits.

There are deficiencies in so many areas such as healthcare and childcare
which weaken the social wage, said Mr Callinan.

Graphic

Picture, Kevin Callinan: Blown away by results of survey.

Load-Date: May 19, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Polish core inflation dips 0.1pp to 12.2% y/y in April

Intellinews - Poland Today

May 16, 2023 Tuesday

Copyright 2023 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC All Rights
Reserved

[]

Length: 211 words

Body

Poland's core inflation, which measures price growth without food and
energy, expanded 12.2% y/y in April (chart), sliding 0.1pp versus the
March reading, the National Bank of Poland (NBP) said on May 16.

It was the first fall in annual core inflation in nearly two years, with
the index now joining other inflation readings in what analysts
predict will be a fairly protracted easing of price growth.

Historically, core inflation would fall more or less in line with easing
CPI. Analysts say, however, that past trends were very much unlike
today's when inflation is accompanied by record-low unemployment, which
is conducive to wages growing fast. 

Poland's gross wages grew 14.3% y/y in the first quarter, trailing
inflation by 0.6pp, the statistical office GUS said last week.

April core inflation remained well above the consumer price index (CPI),
which eased 1.4pp to 14.7% y/y in the fourth month, according to GUS
data. 

With core inflation still very close to the highest level in history and
headline inflation well into double digits, the NBP's reference rate is
poised to remain at 6.75%, where it has been since September.

In m/m terms, core inflation grew 1.2% in April, 0.1pp below the monthly
expansion rate in March, the NBP data also showed.

Load-Date: May 17, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Inflation, interest rate and imperialism

Daily Financial Times

May 10, 2023 Wednesday

Copyright 2023 Wijeya Newspapers Limited All Rights Reserved

Length: 1405 words

Body

Sri Lanka, like many countries in the neo-liberal free market economy
zone, is at war with an accursed enemy, inflation. It is fighting this
war with the only weapon it has and recommended by the Government's
economic advisor IMF, the agent of dollar imperialism. That weapon is to
raise the interest rate by the Central Bank. In this war however, it is
inflation that is destined to win, because it has imperial connections.

It is a common belief among economists that a little bit of inflation is
healthy to an economy, because it provides an incentive to work hard,
produce more and make the economy grow. After all, which salesman or
saleswoman for example would not feel happy to see more and more notes
and coins filling his/her cash drawer? Yet, it is also said that a
little bit of inflation is like a little bit of pregnancy and an
unwanted pregnancy has to be aborted. Interest rate is therefore used as
an inflation abortionist in modern economies.

The US Federal Reserve, soon after the collapse of the First Republic
Bank which followed the earlier collapse Swan Valley Bank, has raised
the interest rate for the 10th time by 0.25% to 5.25%, citing inflation
the reason. Fed's targeted rate is 2% but the current rate has escalated
by more than 160%. Money market observers believe that the rate would
rise even further. Australia has done the same for the 11th time and the
current rate is 3.85%. Bank of England also raised its rate in March
this year and for the 11th time to 4.25%. And, for the first time since
2011, Swiss Bank has raised its rate to 0.5% after years of negative
interest rates. Dreaded inflation is creating financial panic in almost
all developed economies and developing ones like Sri Lanka, who are part
of the international monetary order, have no choice but to follow suit.
But, is raising interest rate the answer to reduce inflation? It depends
on the factors that cause inflation in the first place.

Milton Friedman, the Guru of monetarism, says inflation is always and
everywhere a monetary phenomenon, because it has to be financed, whether
it originated from demand-pull or cost-push sources. This is to ignore
or deny any political or imperialist origins of inflation, which seems
to be the case in the current inflationary wave. Therefore, resorting to
interest rate to counter this enemy is going to be counterproductive as
will be shown later.

There were two factors that played a key role in raising price level and
consequently cost of living over the past two to three years. The first
was the COVID-19 pandemic that started sometime in early 2021. Apart
from causing over a million deaths, it debilitated its victims,
restricted the mobility of people, and made transport of goods and
services, both expensive and hazardous. In short, normal life and
ordinary business of people were virtually paralysed by the pandemic.

Supply constraints that resulted from COVID-19 quickly introduced
rationing of consumer items and emptied the shelves in supermarkets and
other retail outlets. Prices escalated as a result and cost of living
increased. The response to this shortage and price increase therefore is
to increase production and facilitate transport and distribution rather
than to raise interest rate to curtail consumer demand. As it happened,
once the pandemic was brought under some control life returned to a new
normality, and economic activities started picking up and prices began
falling.

It was then the second factor entered the scene and started reversing
the trend. This was the war in Ukraine, which broke out in 2022 and
still continues without any sign of abating. This war has now turned out
to be a proxy war fought against the Russian enemy by imperial America
and its allies. History is witness to show that war and inflation are
inseparable twins.

To cut a long story short, this war would not have occurred had NATO,
which was formed in 1949 to counter the threat from former socialist
USSR and provoked the signing of the Soviet led Warsaw Pact in 1955,
been dissolved once Gorbachev did the same to the Warsaw Pact in 1991.
Instead, NATO continued to expand and threatened to encircle post-Soviet
Russia. Shouldn't Russia counter this threat? Russia's invasion of
Ukraine should be understood in this context before taking side.

Unlike the pandemic this war meant economic ruination of the two
combatants, Ukraine and Russia. The damage it has caused to food and
industrial production in Ukraine, which is a bread basket in Europe, and
to gas and petroleum and other exports from Russia has been phenomenal.
It is this supply constraint generated by this unwanted war that is the
primary reason for increasing prices of many consumer items. The upshot
is inflation.

War increases the demand for weapons, and allocation of more resources
to the armament industry would mean less is available for production of
other goods and services. According to the Stockholm International Peace
Research Institute (SIPRI) a total of $ 2.24 trillion or 2.2% of world's
GDP is spent on armaments and in preparation for another war. Against
whom? China? Of that total however, US, China, and Russia account for
56%.

Resource deprivation to other productive sectors would naturally cause
scarcity and increase price. More resources are also needed to reverse
climate change, which is another phenomenon giving rise to supply
constraints. This inflation therefore is not demand-pull but cost-push
with imperial roots. But the Central Bank chiefs are not willing to call
a spade a spade and speak up to press their governments to stop
supporting the imperial war in Europe. Instead, their faith in tight
monetary policy and higher interest rates to fight inflation could turn
counterproductive. How?

Inflation makes the richest wealthier and masses poorer. Rise in cost of
living is therefore creating resentment against governments and people
are demanding financial relief to cope with price increases. In
Australia for example, the ruling Labour Government is promising that
relief is around the corner with its forthcoming budget to be presented
to the parliament shortly. The Treasurer is promising to put more money
in peoples' pocket. What this would do is to turn the cost-push into
demand-pull inflation, which in turn would necessitate even more
interest rate rises. Then real income of people is not expected to
recover until 2024 if the Treasurer were to be believed. In fact, the
Reserve Bank Governor of Australia has kept the door ajar for future
rate increases even though the Governor says that the fall in inflation
is faster than expected.

The story is not very different in other mature economies also. In Sri
Lanka too, President Ranil Wickremesinghe, with consent from IMF, is
promising to provide relief to low-income earners and other groups. In
the absence of increase in supply, won't this relief increase demand,
increase prices and feed inflation?

Sri Lanka is in a double bind. It has to bring down inflation by
producing more goods and services, while earning foreign currency
through exports in order to service and settle its foreign debt. It is
worth reminding readers what the father of economics Adam Smith had to
say on debt. 'When national debts have once been accumulated to a
certain degree, there is scarce, I believe, a single instance of ...
(them) having been fairly and completely paid.' He went on to add that
'the raising of the denomination of the coin has been the most usual
expedient by which a real public bankruptcy has been disguised under the
appearance of a pretended payment' (Stephan Legge, 'Letter: What Adam
Smith said on inflation and debt trap', Australian Financial Times,
January 19 2022). With rising inflation, Sri Lanka has no way of
'raising the denomination of the coin' and engage in 'pretended
payment'. The forthcoming debt restructuring negotiations are therefore
going to be a challenging task to local negotiators.

The current wave of inflation at home and abroad is therefore not caused
by increase in demand but by shortages in supply. Shortages at home are
the product of a historic mismanagement of the local economy, which is
trapped in the machinations of a corrupt and nationalistic political
culture and ideology. The shortages abroad are the consequence of an
imperial misadventure caught in a banking and financial crisis. Both
require increase in production and that is the only answer to inflation.

Load-Date: May 10, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Managing family finances during inflation

The Punch

May 14, 2023 Sunday

Copyright 2023 Punch Newspapers Provided by Syndigate Media Inc. All
Rights Reserved

[]

Length: 1829 words

Body

Forty-four-year-old Margaret Olodi is a mother of four. She has been
married for 15 years and her youngest child is seven. She also has a
live-in maid and an extended family member, an invalid, who lives with
her.

Her husband teaches in one of the tier-one schools in Lagos and she is a
stay-at-home wife, who sells wares online.

Speaking to our correspondent, Olodi said in the last two years, it had
not been easy coping with the many mouths she had to feed.

She noted that she had had to, many times, cut down costs to fit a tight
budget but still overshot the budget because of the price of goods in
the market, adding that it had made it difficult for her to save the
family income.

"Saving is now a pipe dream. My husband earns a six-figure salary but he
also has other commitments. There is rent, school fees and other
capital-intensive investments.

"The inflation is not helping matters at all. The prices of goods and
services skyrocket, in days, for no reason. No explanation whatsoever is
given. We just see that the price we bought a tin of milk is no longer
the price we buy it now," she said in an interview with our
correspondent.

She added that the inflation also affected the way people patronised her
online market, where she sold baby wears, toys and the like.

She noted that, for two years, her husband's salary had remained the
same.

"The pay has not increased but the prices of goods and services keep
increasing. Even the landlord where we recently moved to has increased
the rent by more than 75 per cent. We are still expected to pay from the
same income. It is terrible for anyone to cope with this without
properly managing the finances," she added.

On how she is coping with the inflation, she said she had to cut the
number of times her family ate and the portion of food they ate in a day
to reflect the new reality of things.

"We don't eat as we used to. Even my seven-year-old knows that now. We
used to finish two tins of milk in one sitting. Now, we have to manage
just one. In fact, we don't even take milk all the time.

"Feeding a growing child and an invalid also saps a lot of income as we
have to buy special foods and cook healthier and greener recipes. But,
we substitute with food supplements and fruits.

"Water is also good. So, instead of going for regular juices, we simply
drink water from the tank. We boil and drink our water because even the
so-called 'pure water' is not as pure as they claim it is," she added.

Her husband, who refused to give his first name because of the policy of
his workplace, said he had written to the management of his company four
times in the past year for a pay raise without any result.

He also added that he had gone into taking money from various loan
sharks to augment the family income, stating that he also had to take up
private extra-mural classes after school for extra pay.

"Working in Lagos and having seven mouths to feed can be very daunting.
I have been depressed a number of times these few years. Before now,
with this salary, I could comfortably pay my rent, run a savings and
investment scheme, pay my children's trust fund and still have spare
cash.

"But now, I can barely survive despite working in a school where people
think I should be earning millions. Inflation has made a joke of
whatever the family makes.

"It was even because of the inflation that my wife started doing her
online business. It was not in our original plan," he noted.

The Olodis revealed that they had plans in place to relocate abroad as,
according to them, the country has not been favourable to them.

"With the way things are going, inflation does not look like it will end
now. The other day, we read from PUNCH that it has increased by more
than 22 per cent. This was something that we were shouting when it was
around 17 per cent.

"We are not sure it will work for us. My husband is planning to leave
for the United Kingdom pretty soon. When everything works out, I will
join him," she added.

While the Olodis are planning to relocate, Mr Atta Ayating, an
Abuja-based construction worker, has his family in the UK.

His wife, whom he said left in 2015, works there as a nurse and his kids
are in various colleges there.

"I am the only one here and I can tell you that the price of goods in
the country is affecting my finances. My wife used to send me 1,500
pounds (N868,228), which used to last me for three months.

"But now, by the time I pay some service charges, buy foodstuffs and
others, I am left with nothing," he said.

He added that his ageing mother stayed in another apartment close to his
in Abuja and had to be taken care of by caregivers, adding that the cost
of caring for her had drastically increased.

"I make my own money which I use to augment my children's school fees
over there and other investments we have here in Nigeria, but I can tell
you that it is staples and the likes that gulp the chunk of our finances
and it has been hard to keep up with the ever-rising inflation," he
stated.

For Mr and Mrs Ukpong, both farmers from Akwa Ibom, it has become
difficult to survive in Etinan, the local government area where they are
based.

"Food is expensive in the market. All the money we make from farming and
the one our children send is barely enough.

"We are old and manage some ailments. We will all die one day. We don't
just deserve all this. We manage and manage but we still end up in
debt," Mrs Ukpong told this reporter in a telephone interview.

There are a thousand families like the Ukpongs, who go to bed more
confused than they wake up because of the warring thoughts in their
hearts on how to manage the meagre income they make to take care of
their family needs and still lead meaningful lives amid Nigeria's rising
inflation.

Inflation is a rise in prices over time. In times of inflation, the cost
of everything from commodities such as food and housing to services such
as health care can rise.

Periods of rising prices can be unpredictable, and there's no way to
accurately gauge how high inflation might climb or how long it will
last.

According to the Nigeria Bureau of Statistics, the annual inflation rate
in Nigeria quickened for the third month to a 17-1/2-year high of 22.04
per cent in March 2023, up from 21.91 per cent in the prior month, amid
a subdued currency due to the worsening cash crisis.

Food inflation, which accounts for the bulk of Nigeria's inflation
basket, climbed further to 24.45 per cent in March from 24.35 per cent
in February, owing to increase in prices of oil and fats, bread and
cereals, potatoes, yam and other tubers, fish, fruits, meat, vegetables
and spirits.

Additional upward pressure came from prices of transportation (22.25 per
cent versus 21.43 per cent) and housing and utilities (18.19 per cent
versus 18.11 per cent) due to the progressive hikes in electricity
tariffs and energy-diesel and petrol prices; and miscellaneous goods and
services (20.01 per cent versus 19.63 per cent).

The annual core inflation rate, which excludes farm produce, peaked at a
record high of 19.86 per cent in March, from 18.84 per cent in the prior
month.

The United Nations Federal Credit Union in a 2022 report noted that as
prices increase, purchasing power (or the value of currency)
consequently decreases.

"And when inflation 'surges', it means that each unit of currency today
is worth less than it was just a few months ago. Even if you make zero
changes to your lifestyle or everyday purchases, the amount you spend
will be higher.

"This can put a noticeable strain on your budget. It might also cause
you to worry about your savings, as the money you've put away decreases
in value. Fortunately, there are a few steps you can take to mitigate
inflation's impact," the publication added.

Commenting on how families can manage their finances during inflation,
an economist, Mr Ade Dayo, said families might need to cut costs to
survive hard times.

According to him, shrinking budget and consumption can be a way to
start.

"Cutting costs can be a difficult decision to make, as it may not be
convenient but it may be the best decision if one wants to survive.

"You may have to reduce the number of times you eat, cut off unnecessary
wants from shopping lists, leave an expensive apartment for a
less-expensive one, change your children's school or seek better
employment.

"Inflation is a time families need to work together to make it work.
Sometimes, most needs may not be met. The most important should be the
only things that should be prioritised," he advised.

He also said families might need to reevaluate their savings.

For him, where one keeps money can have a significant impact on how much
that money is worth over time.

He advised families to 'keep the money you set aside for the future in a
savings account that earns interest so that your balance gradually
increases over time.'

This, for him, can be an effective way to combat inflation. He
recommended that families invest in share certificates.

"The money you deposit in a share certificate grows over a fixed term,
often at an even higher rate than a savings account.

"Keeping your money in savings and share certificate accounts is a wise
place to start in protecting yourself from inflation," he noted.

Another economist, Mr Ganiu Shittu, on his part, stated that families
during this time should track their spending.

According to him, when costs are on the rise, every bit of saving
counts.

"Tracking your spending is a great way to make sure that you're using
your money as effectively as possible. Also, review your bank and credit
card statements from the last few months to determine where there's room
to cut back.

"Some people are paying for a streaming service they don't watch or
listen to. Most people go out to eat more than they cook at home. Some
pay for a gym membership that has not been used in months.

"Trimming this discretionary spending does not need to make a major
difference in your day-to-day life, but can reduce strain on your
budget," he added.

The UNFCU added that families paying off debt should prioritise paying
down high-interest debts.

"As inflation rises, the central bank has been raising interest rates to
make consumers spend less.

"These increased rates make it more expensive to borrow money and make
existing debt even more costly.

"For most consumers, the biggest impact of these rate hikes is on credit
cards. If you have any credit card debt, that debt will increase at a
higher rate, and become more expensive over time. Avoid that extra
expense by taking steps to pay down any credit card debt you might have,
and pay off your balance each month if you can.

"Focus on paying down variable rate loans. When rates increase rapidly,
your minimum payment may only cover the interest without any money going
toward the principal. Payments that go beyond the minimum amount can
help you pay off debt faster," it added.

Forbes Advisor, an online repository, said finding ways to increase
one's income can make periods of extended inflation easier to get
through and budget for.

Load-Date: May 14, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Labor-intensive services support inflation

Valor International

May 17, 2023 Wednesday

Copyright 2023 Valor Economico All Rights Reserved

Length: 1015 words

Byline: Anaïs Fernandes

Body

At the highest level in six years, the inflation of labor-intensive
services, which includes activities such as domestic workers,
hairdressers, doctors, and dentists, brings a warning signal for the
slowdown in prices in the Brazilian economy and also for the effect of
new federal measures to stimulate consumption.

In the 12 months to April, labor-intensive services are up 6.82%, the
highest level since July 2017, when it reached 6.98%, according to
Barclays. “This category has been under pressure in recent readings,”
said Roberto Secemski, Barclays chief Brazil economist.

Labor-intensive services account for just under 20% of total services in
the IPCA and weigh 6% in the overall indicator. Although their direct
representation in the index is limited, it is noteworthy that, unlike
general services, these prices are not even gradually declining and may
be spreading to other items.

For example: services such as waiter or mechanic are not included in
this group, but it is known that they weigh in the formation of prices,
respectively, of food away from home and vehicle repairs, Mr. Secemski
said.

“It shows a dynamic that rewards the labor market as a whole, and that
sooner or later may manifest itself in other prices in the form of cost
pressures,” he said.

Another problem, according to Mr. Secemski, is that experience suggests
that if this inflation is not addressed soon, it will perpetuate.
Between 2009 and 2016, inflation in labor-intensive services averaged
nearly double-digit levels (9.7%), and it took a severe recession to
slow those prices, the economist recalls. “There is always a risk of
getting stuck in a bad dynamic, given the inertia of this category. This
is true for services in general and even more so for those where labor
is the main component,” he said.

A year ago, Mr. Secemski points out, the 12-month inflation rate for
labor-intensive services was almost three percentage points below the
current rate of 4%. “If there is a crystallization of pressure, if it
stays at that level [of almost 7%], it is much harder to fight
afterwards. The more time you spend with a high number, the more
entrenched it becomes,” he said.

In the opposite direction, however, the government has adopted measures
that could put even more pressure on these prices, either from the
supply side of these services, with the adjustment of the minimum wage,
or from the demand side, as the income available for household
consumption increases with the higher income tax exemption, the
additional payments of cash-transfer program Bolsa Família and pay rises
for civil servants.

This month, the government confirmed a new real increase in the minimum
wage for 2023, to R$1,320 from R$1,302 — in addition to its intention to
give real increases also in the coming years, adding the growth of the
GDP two years earlier to the adjustment by the National Consumer Price
Index (INPC) of the previous year.

For this year, the new value already implies an increase of 2.8% over
the increase by the INPC of the minimum wage for 2022, Safra said. For
2024, if the bank’s projection of 5.3% for the INPC is confirmed, the
minimum wage growth would be 8.2%.

Safra calculates that for every percentage point of real increase in the
minimum wage, inflation in underlying services (those most closely
linked to economic activity) rises by about 0.3 percentage points, while
the IPCA grows by a little more than 0.05 percentage points. So, the
bank said, a 2.9% real increase in the minimum wage next year would have
an impact on inflation of about 0.15 percentage points over 12 months.
And that is without counting the effect of the income gain on
consumption, which could be reflected in upward pressure not just on
services but on all consumer prices.

“The combination of real minimum wage increases already implemented, the
possibility of further increases in seven months at the proposed level,
a still-tight labor market, and labor-intensive services inflation at
the current level of 7% is a cause for caution,” Mr. Secemski said.

There is also room for more pressure because the biggest gap in unit
labor costs (ULC) has been in labor-intensive sectors, Bradesco points
out. The ULC measures the cost of labor per unit of production. Its
calculation is a ratio between the average real wages paid and the
productivity of the economy. The lower the ULC, the lower the cost for
companies to add workers to their production process.

After a sharp drop during the pandemic, overall unit costs have returned
to pre-pandemic levels, but segments such as bars, restaurants, and
hotels are still down 13.6%, and household services are down nearly 24%.

“The income stimulus provided by social policies, and the still-reduced
level of unit costs in sectors particularly sensitive to this stimulus,
are likely to continue to drive employment growth in the near term. The
net effect of these factors, in our scenario, is a still important
growth of the non-agricultural economy in this first half of the year
and a continuity of real income gains,” said Bradesco economist Vitor
Vidal.

Andrea Ângelo, the chief inflation economist at Warren Rena, expects
prices for labor-intensive services to fall from July and end the year
at 5.8%.

In the three-month moving average annualized and seasonally adjusted — a
way to smooth monthly movements but still capture the trend “at the top”
in a more dynamic way than the variation in 12 months — there was a
deceleration in inflation of these services between March and April, to
5.71% from 6.68%, according to Ms. Ângelo.

“If you see the news today about the minimum wage, R$150 per child in
the Bolsa Família cash transfer program, these things put the
projections in jeopardy,” he said.

The Central Bank has been trying since last year to control price
pressures through a restrictive monetary policy, but those measures
could go in the opposite direction, Mr. Secemski said. “The cost of
controlling this, once this process becomes entrenched, is much higher.”

(Essa publicação é parte integrante do jornal Valor Econômico e se
sujeita aos termos de uso do site.)

Load-Date: May 17, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Inflation reached an annual rate of 6%, the best level in the last 40
fortnights.

CE Noticias Financieras English

May 24, 2023 Wednesday

Copyright 2023 Content Engine, LLC.

All Rights Reserved

Copyright 2023 CE Noticias Financieras All Rights Reserved

Length: 286 words

Body

MEXICO CITY, (apro).- Inflation reached an annual rate of 6% in the
first fortnight of May, which is the best level in the last 40
fortnights, according to data from the National Institute of Statistics
and Geography (Inegi).

Within the National Consumer Price Index (NCPI), core inflation
registered an increase of 0.18% at a two-weekly rate and at an annual
rate of 7.45%.

This type of inflation is obtained by eliminating from the CPI
calculation those goods and services whose prices are more volatile, or
whose determination process does not respond to market conditions.

Non-core inflation, which only includes agricultural products, energy
and tariffs authorized by different levels of government, stood at an
annual rate of 1.70% in the first 15 days of May.

The products whose prices increased the most were sugar, oranges, pet
food, automobiles, bottled soft drinks, air transportation, housing
prices, sugar, as well as lunchrooms, fondas, torterias and taquerias.

In contrast, the costs of electricity, lemons, chicken, low octane
gasoline, LP domestic gas, washing machines, eggs, computers and green
tomatoes decreased.

According to Grupo Financiero Monex's analysis, Mexican inflation had a
very good figure and is about to fully reverse the wave of shocks that
occurred starting in August of last year, when the rebound in the Covid
cases and the harsh measures applied in China strongly pressured
manufacturing prices.

"For the full month, inflation will break the 6.00% barrier, which will
be an important milestone in reconciling with price stability, although
as of now short frequency data begin to cement a trend that is
compatible with the range between 3.00% and 4.00% per annum," the
analysis advanced.

Load-Date: May 25, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Bank has a lot to learn, says Bailey; Governor admits failings in fight
with inflation

The Times (London)

May 24, 2023 Wednesday

Edition 1, National Edition

Copyright 2023 Times Newspapers Limited All Rights Reserved

[]

Section: BUSINESS; Pg. 37

Length: 477 words

Byline: Ben Martin;Mehreen Khan

Body

Andrew Bailey has admitted that the Bank of England has "very big
lessons" to learn from its battle to bring down inflation in the
governor's most explicit acknowledgement that it has struggled to tackle
soaring prices.

Bailey and other Bank officials came under attack from MPs on the
Commons Treasury select committee for Threadneedle Street's failure to
forecast Britain's inflation crisis.

They were warned that their errors risked undermining the public's
confidence in the Bank's ability to contain prices, prompting Bailey to
concede: "I think there are very big lessons about how we operate
monetary policy in the face of very big shocks" and that they had "a lot
to learn" about navigating such an environment. "The shocks we've faced
have been unprecedented," the governor added. "We have to make policy in
real-time, we don't make policy with the benefit of hindsight."

Huw Pill, the Bank's chief economist, added: "We recognise that our
forecasts of inflation have been too low and we're trying to understand
why we have made those errors."

The Conservative MP John Baron accused the Bank of a "woeful neglect of
duty" in not bringing inflation close to its 2 per cent target, which he
said was causing "real pain" to households and businesses. Consumer
price inflation stood at 10.1 per cent in the 12 months to March,
hovering close to a 41-year high.

It has remained in double-digit territory despite a succession of rate
rises to bring prices under control. Last week the Bank lifted its base
rate to 4.5 per cent, its 12th consecutive increase, and economists will
get a clearer picture of inflation when the Office for National
Statistics publishes its latest monthly price data today.

The Bank's ratesetting monetary policy committee expects inflation to
fall back to 2 per cent by early 2025 and has said it will not come down
as fast as prices have gone up. The International Monetary Fund said its
forecast for 2 per cent inflation had been pushed back to the middle of
2025 due to the strength of the labour market and the rising price of
goods and services.

Bailey refused to be drawn by MPs on how much higher rates could go. "I
can't tell you whether we're near to the peak, I can't tell you whether
we're at the peak, I think we are nearer to the peak than we were," he
said.

Today's data is expected to show a sharp drop in headline inflation to
about 8.4 per cent, the lowest since June last year.

The governor argued that food price inflation had been driven partly by
"things that couldn't have been expected". He said these were "mainly
weather events" that had affected vegetables and sugar.

However, he conceded the Bank could have predicted how some food
manufacturers had responded to worries that Russia's invasion of Ukraine
might disrupt supplies of raw materials such as fertiliser.

MPs berate Bailey, pages 38-39 Patrick Hosking, page 39

Load-Date: May 24, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Inflation in the Eurozone was 7% year-on-year in April

CE Noticias Financieras English

May 17, 2023 Wednesday

Copyright 2023 Content Engine, LLC.

All Rights Reserved

Copyright 2023 CE Noticias Financieras All Rights Reserved

Length: 302 words

Body

Inflation in the euro zone in April stood at 7% year-on-year, one tenth
above the previous period, according to data published today by the
statistics institute Eurostat.

This represents a slight acceleration in annualized inflation compared
to March, which stood at 6.9%, reported ANSA news agency.

In April, the highest contribution to the euro zone's annual inflation
rate came from ultra-processed food, alcohol and tobacco (+2.75
percentage points), followed by services (+2.21 pp), non-energy
industrial goods (+1.62 pp) and energy (+0.38 pp).

The European Union's price index closed April with an annual increase of
8.1% compared to March, when the indicator stood at 8.3%.

The lowest annual inflation rates were recorded in Luxembourg (2.7%),
Belgium (3.3%) and Spain (3.8%).

Meanwhile, the highest annual inflation rates were recorded in Hungary
(24.5%), Latvia (15.0%) and the Czech Republic (14.3%).

Compared to March, annual inflation fell in 22 European Union member
states, while it increased in five.

Last May, the European Central Bank (ECB) decided to increase its
interest rates by a further 25 percentage points in order to curb
inflation in the euro zone in view of the prospect of excessively high
inflation.

With this increase, the rates have increased seven times, accumulating
375 points since last July, and reached the highest level since November
2008.

In view of the current inflationary pressures, the Governing Council
decided today to raise the ECB's three benchmark interest rates by 25
basis points, the monetary body said in a statement.

Although inflation has moderated in recent months, the underlying
index - which does not take into account volatile energy and food
prices - has accumulated ten consecutive months of increases and only
fell by one tenth of a percentage point in April.

Load-Date: May 18, 2023

  End of Document

[]

'Salaries aren't keeping up with inflation'

Business Weekly

May 22, 2023 Monday

Copyright 2023 Zimpapers LTD 1980 All Rights Reserved

Length: 235 words

Body

Average salary increases in South Africa are failing to keep pace with
inflation as low economic growth, high unemployment and the fallout from
the coronavirus pandemic impact on the labour market, a BankservAfrica
report released on Wednesday shows.

The average nominal salary measured in the BankservAfrica Take-home Pay
Index rose to R15 438 in February 2023, from R12 573 five years earlier.
The 22.8 percent increase lagged a 26.6 percent rise in the consumer
price index. The number of salaries paid in South Africa rose by just
455 140 over the period.

'Between 2018 and 2021, the nominal take-home pay kept up with
inflation,' said Shergeran Naidoo, BankservAfrica's head of stakeholder
engagements. 'However, in 2022 it took a turn for the worse as the
nominal average take-home pay stagnated, falling behind the rising cost
of living.'

The situation for 2023 remains bleak, with little room for salaries to
rise substantially unless the economic outlook significantly improves,
according to the report.

Power cuts, known locally as load shedding, escalating fuel prices, and
rising wage pressures have made it 'exceptionally challenging' for
companies over the past 18 months, according to independent economist
Elize Kruger.

That's forced them to shift from potential expansion and investment to
self-sufficiency, further exacerbating joblessness, economic stagnation
and workers' bargaining power, she said.

Load-Date: May 22, 2023

  End of Document

[]

JxC candidate promised "1% inflation in 2024": how he plans to achieve
it

CE Noticias Financieras English

May 24, 2023 Wednesday

Copyright 2023 Content Engine, LLC.

All Rights Reserved

Copyright 2023 CE Noticias Financieras All Rights Reserved

Length: 446 words

Body

Juntos por el cambio seeks to return to power with some of the
candidates that will participate in the internal elections during the
PASO in August and they are also starting to plan the economic programs
to be carried out by each one, especially the answers they will give to
lower inflation.

Horacio Rodríguez Larreta and Patricia Bullrich from the PRO emerge as
the candidates while from the UCR Gerardo Morales and Facundo Manes are
shown as possibilities to lead the space that will dispute the elections
against the Frente de Todos and La Libertad Avanza mainly.

In this case, the current congressman and neuroscientist Facundo Manes
assured that "Inflation can be controlled if the exchange rate is
stabilized. The technical team believes that inflation can reach 1% by
2024", in a risky forecast he gave in a dialogue with Rock and Pop.

Link to Image

A JxC candidate promised "1% inflation in 2024": how he plans to achieve
it.

"We have to stabilize the economy and think about development. We cannot
live on raw materials, which are not the wealth of a society, education
is. We have agriculture, which is at the forefront of the world, has
invested in genetics, knowledge, exports and can grow much more", added
the UCR leader and national legislator.

Manes' plans for the presidency: how he intends to lower inflation

Manes also considered that the Argentine society should "stop discussing
people, if such and such person took a picture with such and such
person, discuss the stupidities of the rift and realize that we have an
enormous capacity", he specified about the possibilities for the next
administration.

Another of the forecasts launched by the UCR candidate for the
presidency was that in Argentina "poverty can be reduced by half in the
next 8 years" in the same way as inflation, two of the problems the
country is going through.

Elections 2023: PASO news, candidates and when to vote

Milei announced the two key members of his economic team if he wins the
presidency

"We are not forced to choose between those who steal from us or those
who lie. That is why I decided to run for President of the Nation. To
stabilize the economy, develop ourselves and take our country forward.
To recover the Argentine dream of prosperity", said Manes during his
launching of his candidacy within the opposition coalition.

Finally, the candidate who will seek to make a surprise considered: "I
worked hard to achieve something in life and I am not resigned to see my
country ruined by inflation and by leaders who only think of
themselves", in a speech that seeks to separate himself from the
different figures who will also seek to overcome the internal conflict
in his space.

Load-Date: May 25, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Waller (Fed) does not favor a pause until inflation approaches 2%.

NAFTA (English)

May 24, 2023 Wednesday

Copyright 2023 Content Engine, LLC.

All Rights Reserved

Copyright 2023 Content Engine LLC All Rights Reserved

Length: 302 words

Byline: María Campillo

Body

Federal Reserve Governor Christopher Waller signaled Wednesday that he
is not in favor of stopping raising interest rates until inflation,
which remains "stubbornly high," approaches 2%.

"I am not in favor of stopping rate hikes unless we get clear evidence
that inflation is moving closer to our 2% target," he said in a speech
at the University of California.

Waller, who has insisted that he is concerned about the lack of progress
on inflation, has said that even if the Fed pauses at the June meeting,
this does not mean that the terminal rate has been reached.

"I don't expect the data coming in to make it clear that we've reached
the terminal rate. But whether we should hike or pause at the June
meeting will depend on how the reports come in over the next three
weeks," he said.

The U.S. central bank governor has made reference to the fact that he
will review labor market figures, wages as well as CPI, which together
with the evolution of credit conditions, will shape his view ahead of
the next monetary conclave.

"Between now and then, we need to remain flexible on the best decision
to make in June," he stressed.

However, Waller has added that even if a pause is warranted at the next
meeting, "prudent risk management would suggest omitting a hike in June
but leaning toward a July increase depending on incoming inflation
data."

"There is a little over a month between the June and July FOMC meetings,
and during that time we will learn more about how credit conditions are
evolving. More than four months will have passed between the failure of
Silicon Valley Bank and the July meeting. By then we will have a much
clearer picture of credit conditions. If banking conditions do not
appear to have tightened excessively, then raising in July may be the
appropriate policy," the Fed governor concluded.

Load-Date: May 25, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Wholesale prices point to easing inflation

Telegraph Herald (Dubuque, IA)

May 12, 2023 Friday

Copyright 2023 Woodward Communications, Inc. All Rights Reserved

Section: B; Pg. 6

Length: 587 words

Byline: PAUL WISEMAN The Associated Press

Body

BY PAUL WISEMAN

The Associated Press

WASHINGTON - Wholesale prices in the United States rose modestly last
month, the latest sign that inflationary pressures might be easing more
than a year after the Federal Reserve unleashed an aggressive campaign
of steadily higher interest rates.

From March to April, the government's producer price index rose just
0.2% after falling 0.4% from February to March, held down by falling
prices for food, transportation and warehousing.

Compared with a year earlier, wholesale prices rose just 2.3%, the 10th
straight slowdown and the lowest figure since January 2021. Lower energy
prices helped slow the annual inflation rate.

Excluding volatile food and energy prices, so-called core wholesale
inflation rose 0.2% from March and 3.2% from 12 months earlier. The
year-over-year increase in core wholesale inflation was the lowest since
March 2021 and marked the seventh straight slowdown. The Fed pays
particularly close attention to core prices, which tend to be a better
gauge of the economy's underlying inflation pressures.

The producer price index that the Labor Department issued Thursday
reflects prices charged by manufacturers, farmers and wholesalers. It
can provide an early sign of how fast consumer inflation will rise. The
index is used to help calculate the Fed's favored inflation gauge: the
Commerce Department's personal consumption expenditures index.

April's mild producer price figures amount to "much-needed and awaited
good news'' for the Fed's fight against inflation, said Ryan Sweet,
chief U.S. economist at Oxford Economics.

Thursday's wholesale figures follow a government report Wednesday that
showed that at the consumer level, core prices rose 0.4% from March to
April - the fifth straight month that those prices have risen at least
that much, well above the pace needed to meet the Fed's 2% annual
inflation target.

On a year-over-year basis, overall consumer inflation, at 4.9%, has
dropped significantly since peaking at 9.1% in June 2022, yet remains
well above the Fed's target level. Economic growth slowed to a tepid
1.1% annual rate from January through March.

The Fed has raised its benchmark interest rate 10 times in 14 months.
The central bank's policymakers want to slow the U.S. economy - the
world's biggest - just enough to control price increases without causing
a recession. But many economists are skeptical and expect the United
States to slip into a recession later this year.

Higher borrowing costs have dealt a blow to some key sectors of the
economy, notably the housing market. Pounded by higher mortgage rates,
sales of existing homes were down a sharp 22% in March from a year
earlier. Investment in housing has cratered over the past year.

Still, the job market, the cornerstone of the economy, remains healthy,
even though it has lost some momentum. The unemployment rate, at 3.4%,
is at a 54-year low.

Last week, the Fed signaled that it may now pause its interest rate
hikes so that its policymakers can step back and assess the impact of
higher rates on growth and inflation.

Chair Jerome Powell also said the Fed would monitor other threats,
including the recent turmoil in the banking sector, to determine whether
to suspend its rate hikes.

Powell stressed his belief that the collapse of three large banks in the
past six weeks will likely cause other banks to tighten lending to avoid
similar fates. Such lending cutbacks, he added, will likely help slow
the economy, cool inflation and lessen the need for the Fed to further
raise rates.

Load-Date: May 12, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Inflation drops below 10 percent for first time since last year - what
it means for you

Worksop Guardian

May 24, 2023 Wednesday

Copyright 2023 JPIMedia Publishing Ltd All Rights Reserved

[]

Section: READ THIS

Length: 273 words

Highlight: Inflation has dropped below 10 percent for the first time
since last year

Body

The rate of inflation is finally back in single digits easing to 8.7%
last month for the first time since last year. According to the Office
for National Statistics this figure is down from the 10.1% recorded in
March as  gas and electricity costs remained stable compared to the
unprecedented leap recorded in the same month last year.

Last spring saw the energy price cap lifted by 54% to £1,971 to reflect
the impact of Russia’s war in Ukraine on European gas and electricity
supplies. Since the invasion, energy costs have been the main source of
the cost of living crisis which has seen energy bills soar - affecting
the overall economy.

But while the inflation rate has eased, those on budgets will still be
affected as earnings still do not match the rate of price rises. The
Bank of England has been initiating interest rate hikes to try to combat
pressure on prices and to dampen demand in the economy. Meanwhile, there
is speculation on whether bank rates will be raised further next month
following 12 consecutive increases.

According to Sky News energy regulator, Ofgem, is tipped to reveal on
Thursday (May 25) that the price cap will fall to £2,053 per year from
July-September. That is down from the £3,280 level set for March-June
which was largely irrelevant as the government’s Energy Price Guarantee
was in place.

What does inflation mean

The Bank of England website says the average increase in prices is known
as the inflation rate. So if inflation is 3%, it means prices are 3%
higher (on average) than they were a year ago. For example, if a loaf of
bread cost £1 a year ago and now it’s £1.03 then its price has risen by
3%

Graphic

Inflation has dropped below 10 percent for the first time since last
year

Load-Date: May 24, 2023

  End of Document

[]

BSP has enough tools to control inflation, spur growth - Medalla

Manila Bulletin

May 22, 2023 Monday

Copyright 2023 Manila Bulletin All Rights Reserved

[]

Length: 744 words

Dateline: Manila

Body

Manila, May 22 -- The Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas (BSP) has enough
arsenal to manage high inflation, sustain a non-inflationary growth and
ensure a strong banking system, according to BSP Governor Felipe M.
Medalla.

Medalla said late Monday, May 22, after Fitch Ratings affirmed the
Philippines' investment-grade credit rating of "BBB" and revised the
outlook to "stable" from "negative" that the central bank "remains
committed to using the tools at its disposal to address the current
challenges brought about by inflation and developments in the global
banking system."

The BSP highlighted Fitch's statement on the credibility of its
inflation-targeting framework and the flexible exchange rate policy.

It noted that BSP's "interventions to mitigate peso volatility have been
reversed" and that "monetary financing to the government during the
pandemic was more limited and was reversed more quickly than in some
peers."

Fitch said it expects the country's inflation to average to about four
percent by 2024, or within the government target band of two percent to
four percent. This is consistent with the BSP's own forecast of 5.5
percent for 2023 and 2.8 percent for next year.

Further commenting on the Fitch upgrade, Medalla said the BSP's
"exceptional and timely actions which include aggressive monetary
tightening and the previous temporary financing to the government during
the pandemic, have not resulted in adverse side effects on the stability
of the financial system."

"With the Philippine banking sector being liquid and well-capitalized,
the central bank stands ready to use all the tools at its disposal to
preserve price stability," he added.

The BSP has raised the benchmark rate by a cumulative 425 basis points
in year-long tightening bias to prevent the peso from breaching past P60
in 2022. The rate hikes primarily were intended to control inflation and
the exchange rate when the spot market has began to impact on inflation.

The Philippines has maintained the same investment-grade credit rating
from Fitch since December 2017. Monday's revision of the outlook to
"stable" from "negative" is anchored on the country's "strong and
resilient economic growth, sound economic policy framework, and
comfortable external payments position."

The BSP adopted the inflation targeting framework in 2002. Since then,
its policy toolkit includes interest rate adjustments, a flexible and
market-determined exchange rate, and the use of foreign exchange
reserves as first defense against external shocks.

The BSP reiterated Monday that it continues to supports the government's
targeted non-monetary interventions to curb price pressures.

Inflation has dropped to 6.6 percent in April, lower than March's 7.6
percent and February's 8.6 percent. Inflation is still above-target but
it has been decelerating since February after hitting a peak of 8.7
percent in January. The year-to-date average is now 7.9 percent.

For now, exchange rate intervention and keeping the BSP policy rate at
6.25 percent in a hold position possibly until the third quarter are the
two primary monetary policy measures that the central bank has done to
stabilize the peso-US dollar rates, currently at the P55-56 level.

The key rate should at least be 100 bps higher than the US interest
rates to keep the exchange rate less volatile. As of May 18, which was
the last Monetary Board policy meeting, the BSP rate is paused at 6.25
percent after nine straight rate hikes.

Meanwhile, a "BBB" rating which is a notch above the minimum investment
grade, means there is a low likelihood of a default risk, said the BSP.
"It also means that the country's current capacity for payment of
financial commitments is considered adequate," it added. As for the
"stable" outlook, this means Fitch is not likely to change its rating
over a one- to two-year period.

The Fitch upgrade also indicates that the country's sovereign
investment-grade rating has a lower credit risk. It means that instead
of paying higher interest payments, the government can free up more
funding for "socially beneficial programs and projects" and will have
access to more financing from multilateral agencies. It will also be
easier to attract attention from the international capital markets when
selling global bonds.

Published by HT Digital Content Services with permission from Manila
Bulletin. For any query with respect to this article or any other
content requirement, please contact Editor at contentservices@htlive.com

Load-Date: May 22, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Inflation drops below 10 percent for first time since last year - what
it means for you

Hemel Today

May 24, 2023

Copyright 2023 JPIMedia Publishing Ltd All Rights Reserved

[]

Section: READ THIS

Length: 273 words

Highlight: Inflation has dropped below 10 percent for the first time
since last year

Body

The rate of inflation is finally back in single digits easing to 8.7%
last month for the first time since last year. According to the Office
for National Statistics this figure is down from the 10.1% recorded in
March as  gas and electricity costs remained stable compared to the
unprecedented leap recorded in the same month last year.

Last spring saw the energy price cap lifted by 54% to £1,971 to reflect
the impact of Russia’s war in Ukraine on European gas and electricity
supplies. Since the invasion, energy costs have been the main source of
the cost of living crisis which has seen energy bills soar - affecting
the overall economy.

But while the inflation rate has eased, those on budgets will still be
affected as earnings still do not match the rate of price rises. The
Bank of England has been initiating interest rate hikes to try to combat
pressure on prices and to dampen demand in the economy. Meanwhile, there
is speculation on whether bank rates will be raised further next month
following 12 consecutive increases.

According to Sky News energy regulator, Ofgem, is tipped to reveal on
Thursday (May 25) that the price cap will fall to £2,053 per year from
July-September. That is down from the £3,280 level set for March-June
which was largely irrelevant as the government’s Energy Price Guarantee
was in place.

What does inflation mean

The Bank of England website says the average increase in prices is known
as the inflation rate. So if inflation is 3%, it means prices are 3%
higher (on average) than they were a year ago. For example, if a loaf of
bread cost £1 a year ago and now it’s £1.03 then its price has risen by
3%

Graphic

Inflation has dropped below 10 percent for the first time since last
year

Load-Date: May 24, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Inflation drops below 10 percent for first time since last year - what
it means for you

Halifax Courier

May 24, 2023

Copyright 2023 JPIMedia Publishing Ltd All Rights Reserved

[]

Section: READ THIS

Length: 273 words

Highlight: Inflation has dropped below 10 percent for the first time
since last year

Body

The rate of inflation is finally back in single digits easing to 8.7%
last month for the first time since last year. According to the Office
for National Statistics this figure is down from the 10.1% recorded in
March as  gas and electricity costs remained stable compared to the
unprecedented leap recorded in the same month last year.

Last spring saw the energy price cap lifted by 54% to £1,971 to reflect
the impact of Russia’s war in Ukraine on European gas and electricity
supplies. Since the invasion, energy costs have been the main source of
the cost of living crisis which has seen energy bills soar - affecting
the overall economy.

But while the inflation rate has eased, those on budgets will still be
affected as earnings still do not match the rate of price rises. The
Bank of England has been initiating interest rate hikes to try to combat
pressure on prices and to dampen demand in the economy. Meanwhile, there
is speculation on whether bank rates will be raised further next month
following 12 consecutive increases.

According to Sky News energy regulator, Ofgem, is tipped to reveal on
Thursday (May 25) that the price cap will fall to £2,053 per year from
July-September. That is down from the £3,280 level set for March-June
which was largely irrelevant as the government’s Energy Price Guarantee
was in place.

What does inflation mean

The Bank of England website says the average increase in prices is known
as the inflation rate. So if inflation is 3%, it means prices are 3%
higher (on average) than they were a year ago. For example, if a loaf of
bread cost £1 a year ago and now it’s £1.03 then its price has risen by
3%

Graphic

Inflation has dropped below 10 percent for the first time since last
year

Load-Date: May 24, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Inflation drops below 10 percent for first time since last year - what
it means for you

Buxton Advertiser

May 24, 2023

Copyright 2023 JPIMedia Publishing Ltd All Rights Reserved

[]

Section: READ THIS

Length: 273 words

Highlight: Inflation has dropped below 10 percent for the first time
since last year

Body

The rate of inflation is finally back in single digits easing to 8.7%
last month for the first time since last year. According to the Office
for National Statistics this figure is down from the 10.1% recorded in
March as  gas and electricity costs remained stable compared to the
unprecedented leap recorded in the same month last year.

Last spring saw the energy price cap lifted by 54% to £1,971 to reflect
the impact of Russia’s war in Ukraine on European gas and electricity
supplies. Since the invasion, energy costs have been the main source of
the cost of living crisis which has seen energy bills soar - affecting
the overall economy.

But while the inflation rate has eased, those on budgets will still be
affected as earnings still do not match the rate of price rises. The
Bank of England has been initiating interest rate hikes to try to combat
pressure on prices and to dampen demand in the economy. Meanwhile, there
is speculation on whether bank rates will be raised further next month
following 12 consecutive increases.

According to Sky News energy regulator, Ofgem, is tipped to reveal on
Thursday (May 25) that the price cap will fall to £2,053 per year from
July-September. That is down from the £3,280 level set for March-June
which was largely irrelevant as the government’s Energy Price Guarantee
was in place.

What does inflation mean

The Bank of England website says the average increase in prices is known
as the inflation rate. So if inflation is 3%, it means prices are 3%
higher (on average) than they were a year ago. For example, if a loaf of
bread cost £1 a year ago and now it’s £1.03 then its price has risen by
3%

Graphic

Inflation has dropped below 10 percent for the first time since last
year

Load-Date: May 24, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Inflation drops below 10 percent for first time since last year - what
it means for you

Bucks Herald

May 24, 2023

Copyright 2023 JPIMedia Publishing Ltd All Rights Reserved

[]

Section: READ THIS

Length: 273 words

Highlight: Inflation has dropped below 10 percent for the first time
since last year

Body

The rate of inflation is finally back in single digits easing to 8.7%
last month for the first time since last year. According to the Office
for National Statistics this figure is down from the 10.1% recorded in
March as  gas and electricity costs remained stable compared to the
unprecedented leap recorded in the same month last year.

Last spring saw the energy price cap lifted by 54% to £1,971 to reflect
the impact of Russia’s war in Ukraine on European gas and electricity
supplies. Since the invasion, energy costs have been the main source of
the cost of living crisis which has seen energy bills soar - affecting
the overall economy.

But while the inflation rate has eased, those on budgets will still be
affected as earnings still do not match the rate of price rises. The
Bank of England has been initiating interest rate hikes to try to combat
pressure on prices and to dampen demand in the economy. Meanwhile, there
is speculation on whether bank rates will be raised further next month
following 12 consecutive increases.

According to Sky News energy regulator, Ofgem, is tipped to reveal on
Thursday (May 25) that the price cap will fall to £2,053 per year from
July-September. That is down from the £3,280 level set for March-June
which was largely irrelevant as the government’s Energy Price Guarantee
was in place.

What does inflation mean

The Bank of England website says the average increase in prices is known
as the inflation rate. So if inflation is 3%, it means prices are 3%
higher (on average) than they were a year ago. For example, if a loaf of
bread cost £1 a year ago and now it’s £1.03 then its price has risen by
3%

Graphic

Inflation has dropped below 10 percent for the first time since last
year

Load-Date: May 24, 2023

  End of Document

[]

UK inflation forecast: what will happen to rates in 2023, will they
halve in line with Rishi Sunak’s pledge?

National World

May 24, 2023 Wednesday

Copyright 2023 JPIMedia Publishing Ltd All Rights Reserved

[]

Section: UKPOLITICSMONEY

Length: 1177 words

Highlight: The Prime Minister said he would ease the burden of the cost
of living crisis for people across the UK by tackling price rises. But
is this something he can promise?

Body

For the past year people across the UK have been struggling with the
worst cost of living crisis for decades.

Inflation rocketed to record levels throughout 2022, as the war in
Ukraine pushed up the price of everyday necessities, including food,
energy and fuel. At the same time, wages have failed to keep pace with
this seismic change in everyday costs.

As we moved into the latter part of the year, interest rates soared in
response to the political turmoil originating from Liz Truss’s short
time as Prime Minister. This applied a further squeeze to millions of
mortgage payers and home buyers across the UK.

In a bid to kickstart his premiership and begin to rebuild the
Conservative Party’s self-ascribed reputation for ‘sound money’, Rishi
Sunak gave a speech on 4 January. One of the PM’s key pledges was to
halve inflation this year.

But is this target achievable - and if inflation comes down, does it
mean the cost of living crisis will ease?

What is the current UK inflation rate?

Inflation is an economics term for how much the price of goods and
services has risen over a set period of time. Another way of thinking
about it is that it shows how much consumer spending power has
decreased.

As of April 2023, the latest month for which we have data, the Office
for National Statistics’ key inflation yardstick - the Consumer Prices
Index (CPI) - showed prices were an average of 8.7% higher than they
were in the same month a year previously. This figure marks a
significant drop on March’s 10.1% figure (which was also the figure when
Sunak made his speech in January) and last October’s record rate of
11.1%.

What did Rishi Sunak say about inflation?

In a speech on 4 January, Rishi Sunak outlined his ambitions and policy
priorities for the year ahead. One of his key pledges focused on
inflation, which he said he would halve in 2023.

He said achieving this goal would reduce the burden of the cost of
living crisis and “give people financial security”. He also urged the
public to “judge [the government] on the effort we put in and the
results we achieve”. However, Sunak did not outline how he planned to
reduce the rate of inflation. Indeed, the speech gave very little detail
on how the government would achieve any of the goals the PM set out.

Can Rishi Sunak reduce inflation?

When he made the speech, several experts had already pointed out that
inflation was likely to fall anyway over the course of 2023.

In its November 2022 Monetary Policy Committee report, the Bank of
England predicted that inflation would decrease below 10% after March
2023 (it stayed at 10.1%) before dropping below 2% by the first half of
2024. It said it expected inflation to be between 5% and 6% by the end
of the year. Its forecast has become slightly more pessimistic about
inflation since then given inflation has proven to be more embedded in
the economy than first thought.

One of the UK central bank’s key jobs is to keep inflation at or near
2% - a rate deemed to be high enough to encourage a level of spending
that (in theory) encourages a healthy rate of economic growth. It
controls the rate of inflation by adjusting interest rates - something
it did earlier in May.

It does independently of the government, but with reference to
government fiscal policy as well as the wider UK economic picture.
Basically, it will be the Bank of England rather than Rishi Sunak that
will be doing most of the leg work in bringing inflation down over the
next year.

Meanwhile, progressive think tank the Resolution Foundation projected in
December that global trends would also help to push inflation down. In a
report it published in December, it said price rises in the UK will slow
as a result of falling demand for US goods (which influences the world’s
economy given the dollar is the main international reserve currency),
the easing of Covid-related supply chain bottlenecks, and a drop in
energy prices as Europe continues to wean itself off Russian oil and
gas.

So, while the UK government has been very keen to blame international
pressures for the scale of the cost of living crisis, Rishi Sunak is
clearly not prepared to give these same issues the credit they deserve
for easing inflation.

The second thing to point out is that falling inflation does not mean
falling prices. Nor does it necessarily mean the cost of living crisis
will ease, as Sunak suggested in his speech.

Professor David McMillan, a finance expert from the University of
Stirling, told NationalWorld that this is because of how inflation is
calculated.

“Inflation is measured as the change in prices between two points. There
are various reasons why inflation increased through 2022, but the
dominant one is the war in Ukraine,” he said. “[It] led to increases in
oil and gas prices, among others. This then fed through into a whole
range of other prices as they are basic commodities used throughout the
economy.

“That same percentage change will not happen between 2022 and 2023
(indeed current gas prices are at the lower end of 2022 prices). As
such, the rate of inflation will come down given its method of
calculation. Prices will still be higher (inflation would have to be
negative for prices to fall) but the rate at which they are rising is
less  - that is, unless another large shock happens, such as the
escalation of the war.”

Professor McMillan added that the “nature” of the UK cost of living
crisis will also contribute to a fall in the rate of inflation, as
“people have less money to spend”. In this vein, Rishi Sunak has already
contributed to a short-to-medium term fall in inflation by getting his
Chancellor, Jeremy Hunt, to hike taxes in the Autumn Statement.

With all of these things in mind, Professor McMillan said we should
therefore view Rishi Sunak’s pledge to halve inflation as being both
“misleading” and “politically expedient” given the PM will barely have
to lift a finger to achieve his aims.

Rishi Sunak inflation pledge update

As 2023 has gone on, Rishi Sunak’s inflation target has looked more and
more precarious.

Inflation actually increased to 10.4% in February before not falling by
as much as expected in March (to 10.1%) and then failing to tumble by as
much as hoped once again in April (to 8.7%). The worrying aspect of
April’s figure was that core inflation - a measure that excludes
volatile categories, like food and energy prices - actually went up. It
climbed to 6.8%, its highest level in more than 31 years.

Earlier in May, independent think tank the National Institute of
Economic and Social Research (NIESR) said it expected inflation to fall
to 5.4% by the end of 2023. Given inflation was 10.5% when Rishi Sunak
pledged to halve inflation in January, this outcome would mean he would
miss his target.

At its last interest rates decision in May, the Bank of England said it
now expected inflation to be around 5.2% by the end of 2023 - a figure
that gives Sunak a chance of achieving his goal. But given the bank has
so far overestimated how much inflation will fall by on three occasions
this year, its predictions may not fill the PM with confidence.

Graphic

Can Rishi Sunak tackle the cost of living crisis like he has promised?
(image: Getty Images/AFP/NationalWorld)

Load-Date: May 24, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Rubber shield against inflation

CE Noticias Financieras English

May 13, 2023 Saturday

Copyright 2023 Content Engine, LLC.

All Rights Reserved

Copyright 2023 CE Noticias Financieras All Rights Reserved

Length: 1083 words

Body

The increasingly severe inflationary acceleration of the national
economy is another compelling reason to urgently change the fiscal
target of the IMF agreement. The government's income compensation
policies to keep the purchasing power of popular sectors afloat are
overwhelmed by so much inflation. The key, obviously, is to halt this
CPI dynamic, but in the meantime it is essential to expand assistance to
citizens and this requires an increase in public spending.

This week the Minister of Economy, Sergio Massa, and the head of Anses,
Fernanda Raverta, announced the increase in pensions, allowances and
pensions for June, according to the mobility law. The increase will be
21 percent (20.92), against an inflation that in this quarter
(April-June) will be between 5 and 6 points above that level. To
compensate for this, the Government will maintain and extend the bonuses
received by those who earn the minimum wage, with supplements of 15
thousand pesos in June, 17 thousand in July and 20 thousand in August.
There will also be additional bonuses for those who receive up to two
minimum salaries, decreasing up to 5 thousand pesos.

This strategy is fully effective to neutralize the CPI increase only in
the first group, the minimum pensioners, who represent 65 percent of the
total, some 4.8 million people. In their case, counting the June
increase and bonuses, in the last year their income will increase by 130
percent, while the CPI will be slightly below that figure.

From then on, the measure will have less impact on those who receive up
to two minimum incomes, which are almost another 20 percent of retirees,
1.4 million people. The remaining 16 percent, 1.2 million, do not
receive any bonus and their situation has been worsening at the same
rate as the consumer price index.

The cases

The minimum retirement as of June will be 70,983 pesos, in addition to
the aforementioned bonuses. But those who receive more than two minimum
pensions, i.e. more than 142,000 pesos per month, will continue to
receive no assistance from the State and will suffer a serious erosion
of their purchasing power. In 2022, this large sector of retirees
endured a drop in income of 11 points in real terms. Inflation last year
was 94.8 percent, but pension mobility granted increases of only 72.5
percent.

In the first half of this year, the situation would be even more
serious. The increase in pensions due to pension mobility was 17.04
percent in March, against an inflation of 21.7 percent in the first
quarter. For the April-June period, the salary increase announced this
week is 20.92 percent, while the projected inflation for the period was
23.5 percent according to the Central Bank's market expectations survey.
This last number will surely be corrected upwards because consultants
and specialists had estimated an inflation of 7.5 percent in April, but
this Friday it was known that it was almost one point higher, at 8.4
percent.

Therefore, the gap between the increase in mobility and inflation is
getting wider and wider and the loss of purchasing power for retirees
who do not receive bonuses is worse. In the first half of the year it
will be no less than 5 points and could reach 6 or 7 points if inflation
remains at last month's levels. Therefore, in a year and a half these
retirees will lose 17 or 18 points in real terms.

In this situation are, as mentioned above, those who will earn more than
142 thousand pesos per month as from June, up to the maximum retirement
set at 477,347 pesos as from that month. As can be seen, these are not
privileged sectors that can easily assimilate the drop in their income.

Slightly less substantial is the loss of purchasing power for retirees
who receive between one and two minimum pensions, since they receive a
proportional part of the compensation bonuses, but their income is still
below inflation. For example, those who earn only 5 thousand pesos more
than the minimum, i.e. 76 thousand pesos per month, with the June
increase plus the bonus will still lose against the CPI, since in the
semester they will have an increase of 42.9 percent and inflation aims
to exceed 50 percent.

The formulas

The formula for pension increases approved during this government, in
any case, is better than the previous one, sanctioned during the
government of Juntos por el Cambio (Together for Change). With the
system imposed when Mauricio Macri was president, pension benefits would
have increased 239.9 percent between 2021 and the first half of this
year. On the other hand, with the current formula, the increase will
reach 272.8 percent.

The comparison was made by the Argentine Center for Political Economy
(CEPA). "With the new law, the minimum retirement will reach 70,983
pesos in June. With the previous law, mobility would have totaled 64,644
pesos, that is, 6338 pesos less," the study states.

"Likewise, the average retirement will reach, with the new law, 109,531
pesos in June, and would have added 95,914 pesos with the previous one,
that is, a difference of 13,616 pesos", it adds.

Finally, CEPA warns that "in the accumulated series of differences from
the beginning of 2021 (application of the new law) to date, retirees
would have received with the old law 83,243 pesos less in the case of
the minimum retirement and 156,386 pesos less in the case of the average
retirement".

The debate

Hernán Letcher, at the head of CEPA, warns that "with the inflation
levels we have, no compensation scheme seems sufficient, which is the
same thing that happens to active workers." "The fiscal limitation
imposed by the agreement with the IMF is part of the problem", he adds.

For Miguel Fernández Pastor, an expert in pension matters and former
Anses official, "the problem with the bonds is that sooner or later they
will give rise to new lawsuits like Badaro", in reference to the claim
made by thousands of retirees during the government of Néstor Kirchner
when the mobility law had not yet been approved and the Supreme Court
ordered to compensate those who had not received the increases by
decree.

For his part, Federico Bobrovsky, a pension lawyer, understands that
"the pension system is not divorced from what happens in the real
economy, which is why it is so important to strengthen productive
policies that generate employment". "The flattening of the wage pyramid
facilitates the task of the neoliberal sectors that seek this scheme,
with low replacement rates for the majority and privatized contribution
schemes for a few", he concludes.

Load-Date: May 14, 2023

  End of Document

[]

How does UK inflation work? ONS process for calculating cost of living
through CPI and RPI explained

National World

May 24, 2023 Wednesday

Copyright 2023 JPIMedia Publishing Ltd All Rights Reserved

[]

Section: MONEYUKEXPLAINERS

Length: 1329 words

Highlight: The UK cost of living crisis has been fuelled by soaring
energy bills, petrol costs and food prices, as well as a real-terms drop
in wages and spending power

Body

UK inflation dropped to 8.7% in April 2023, largely thanks to stable
energy prices, the ONS Consumer Prices Index (CPI) has shown.

With increases to gas and electricity bills not matching the huge 54%
rise seen under the Ofgem energy price cap in April 2022, the rate of
prices rises has been deemed to have fallen for energy. But the headline
figure still means prices are rising rapidly - particularly in sectors
like food, where costs are continuing to soar at a rate of 19.3%.

The decline is also not quite the good news it appears to be at first
glance. Firstly, economists had been anticipating a larger fall to
somewhere in the region of 8.2%. Secondly, core inflation - a measure of
price rises that cuts out volatile categories, like energy and food -
has gone up, rising from 6.2% to 6.8% between March and April.

It means the Bank of England, which follows core inflation closely,
looks likely to hike interest rates again in June. This sticky inflation
also jeopardises Rishi Sunak’s pledge to halve inflation by the end of
2023 (a promise he had little control over anyway).

But how is inflation calculated - and what exactly does high inflation
mean for you?

What is inflation?

Inflation is an economics term for the rate of price rises across the
economy. Price rises tend to come about when demand outstrips supply,
with key drivers of the current crisis including, the price of oil,
supply chain disruption, Brexit-related labour shortages and low product
availability.

Essentially, anything that hikes the cost of creating a product and
getting it from A to B is likely to increase inflation. For example, the
rate of inflation for vegetables rose to 19.9% from 19.3% between April
and March - a rise that’s come about as a result of shortages in Europe
and high energy costs leading to a lack of production in the UK.

Many of the factors behind our high inflation rate are related to the
Russia-Ukraine war given both countries are key suppliers of vital
commodities, like gas and wheat. Food prices have been hit particularly
hard by the conflict, although this does not entirely explain the
above-inflation hikes NationalWorld has recorded in supermarket value
ranges over the past year.

Sharp rises in inflation, like the one seen for food items, can severely
impact the cost of living and see consumers opt to reduce their
spending - especially on luxury goods and services. Overall, this is bad
news for the economy, which is already struggling to grow.

When inflation is at a much lower level, it is seen by most economists
as a good thing. They believe it encourages shoppers to spend rather
than run the risk of seeing the value of their money decrease. The Bank
of England, which aims to control inflation by using interest rates, has
a target of keeping the rate of price rises to 2%.

The thinking is that this contributes towards a healthy economy, where
people spend their cash and create more demand for goods and services by
doing so, which maintains supply chains and employment. If there was
deflation, it is believed consumers would not feel the need to spend as
much right away because their purchasing power could extend further in
the future.

One key thing to note with inflation is that even if the rate is going
down, prices are still rising on average. Given prices were already
rising this time last year, the percentage increase you see today should
be viewed as being in addition to the percentage increase recorded last
year (9% as of April 2022).

Also, as the headline inflation figure is an average, some categories
will be recording bigger price rises, while others will be seeing lower
ones (or even deflation). For example, while olive oil is 46.4% more
expensive, petrol has gone down in price by 9.9%.

Any decline in the inflation rate can also be down to the way it is
calculated. Given the headline rate is an annual comparison, when any
major price shocks move out of the 12-month window of measurements, the
rate is likely to go down. This is why inflation fell so sharply in
April - the Ofgem energy price cap increase of April 2022 was not
matched by the bill increases of April 2023.

Research has indicated that the cost of living has risen much more for
those on the lowest incomes. Analysis by progressive think tank the
Resolution Foundation has found the poorest tenth of the UK population
are seeing price rises that are 2% higher compared to the country’s
wealthiest tenth, as they tend to spend a greater proportion of their
income on basic necessities.

How is inflation calculated?

The UK has two mechanisms for calculating inflation which are worked out
by official statistics body the ONS every month. This data not only
allows people to make informed decisions about their spending habits but
it is also used to set state handouts, like pensions, benefits and
statutory sick pay.

CPI

The most important measure of inflation in the UK, and internationally,
is the CPI. Used as the UK’s official inflation yardstick, it’s worked
out by measuring the price of a typical ‘basket’ of goods and services
we use in our everyday lives.

This basket includes everything from the price of a loaf of bread to how
much an e-book costs and is determined by the annual Family Expenditure
Survey, which is completed by 6,000 people and determines the percentage
of people’s incomes that are spent on different things. It changes every
year, with items added or taken away to better reflect current shopping
habits.

This list often provides a fascinating insight into UK social trends.
For example, in 2023, E-bikes, home security cameras and frozen berries
have all been added, while non-Top 40 CDs, alcopops and digital cameras
have been removed.

The ONS weights each product or service category depending on its
importance to the average person’s budget. It means things that are
integral to our lives, like food, have more of a bearing on the CPI rate
than luxuries, such as alcohol.

In all, the ONS gathers 180,000 individual prices for more than 720
consumer goods and services every single month. These prices are
collected in roughly 140 locations across the UK, as well as from the
internet and over the phone.

Percentage increases in price are then multiplied by the weighting the
particular product category has been given, which gives us a picture of
how much of an impact it is having on consumer budgets. The September
edition of the CPI tends to be especially important because the
government uses it to judge how much state benefits should increase from
the next financial year.

The ONS also calculates a version of the CPI that includes home owner
occupier costs and council tax (CPIH). While it is a more comprehensive
measure of overall inflation, it masks day-to-day consumer price changes
because housing is given a huge weighting. It also makes it harder to
make international comparisons, as the UK’s housing system is very
different from those in other countries.

RPI

Alongside the CPI, the ONS also calculates inflation through the Retail
Prices Index (RPI). However, it is not used for official purposes as, by
international standards, it is seen as an inferior measurement to the
CPI.

The reason why it is still calculated is because it provides a
historical yardstick for how UK inflation has changed. This is because
it was used for much of the twentieth century. RPI is still used to
determine some UK prices, for example train tickets, mobile phone bills
and some taxes, like alcohol duty. It fell to a rate of 11.4% in March
2023.

What does the current CPI mean?

The CPI rate was 8.7% in April 2023. What this means in practice is that
the average price of goods and services cost 8.7% more than in April
2022. In real terms, an item that cost £1 last year now costs an average
of £1.09 (when we round the figure up).

Ultimately, it means the purchasing power of the pounds in your pocket
has diminished significantly since last year. This level of inflation
builds on what was already a high rate of 9% in April 2022.

Graphic

This is how inflation is calculated by the Office for National
Statistics (images: Adobe)

Load-Date: May 24, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Inflation drops below 10 percent for first time since last year - what
it means for you

Berwickshire News

May 24, 2023

Copyright 2023 JPIMedia Publishing Ltd All Rights Reserved

[]

Section: READ THIS

Length: 273 words

Highlight: Inflation has dropped below 10 percent for the first time
since last year

Body

The rate of inflation is finally back in single digits easing to 8.7%
last month for the first time since last year. According to the Office
for National Statistics this figure is down from the 10.1% recorded in
March as  gas and electricity costs remained stable compared to the
unprecedented leap recorded in the same month last year.

Last spring saw the energy price cap lifted by 54% to £1,971 to reflect
the impact of Russia’s war in Ukraine on European gas and electricity
supplies. Since the invasion, energy costs have been the main source of
the cost of living crisis which has seen energy bills soar - affecting
the overall economy.

But while the inflation rate has eased, those on budgets will still be
affected as earnings still do not match the rate of price rises. The
Bank of England has been initiating interest rate hikes to try to combat
pressure on prices and to dampen demand in the economy. Meanwhile, there
is speculation on whether bank rates will be raised further next month
following 12 consecutive increases.

According to Sky News energy regulator, Ofgem, is tipped to reveal on
Thursday (May 25) that the price cap will fall to £2,053 per year from
July-September. That is down from the £3,280 level set for March-June
which was largely irrelevant as the government’s Energy Price Guarantee
was in place.

What does inflation mean

The Bank of England website says the average increase in prices is known
as the inflation rate. So if inflation is 3%, it means prices are 3%
higher (on average) than they were a year ago. For example, if a loaf of
bread cost £1 a year ago and now it’s £1.03 then its price has risen by
3%

Graphic

Inflation has dropped below 10 percent for the first time since last
year

Load-Date: May 24, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Inflation drops below 10 percent for first time since last year - what
it means for you

The News

May 24, 2023 Wednesday

Copyright 2023 JPIMedia Publishing Ltd All Rights Reserved

[]

Section: READ THIS

Length: 273 words

Highlight: Inflation has dropped below 10 percent for the first time
since last year

Body

The rate of inflation is finally back in single digits easing to 8.7%
last month for the first time since last year. According to the Office
for National Statistics this figure is down from the 10.1% recorded in
March as  gas and electricity costs remained stable compared to the
unprecedented leap recorded in the same month last year.

Last spring saw the energy price cap lifted by 54% to £1,971 to reflect
the impact of Russia’s war in Ukraine on European gas and electricity
supplies. Since the invasion, energy costs have been the main source of
the cost of living crisis which has seen energy bills soar - affecting
the overall economy.

But while the inflation rate has eased, those on budgets will still be
affected as earnings still do not match the rate of price rises. The
Bank of England has been initiating interest rate hikes to try to combat
pressure on prices and to dampen demand in the economy. Meanwhile, there
is speculation on whether bank rates will be raised further next month
following 12 consecutive increases.

According to Sky News energy regulator, Ofgem, is tipped to reveal on
Thursday (May 25) that the price cap will fall to £2,053 per year from
July-September. That is down from the £3,280 level set for March-June
which was largely irrelevant as the government’s Energy Price Guarantee
was in place.

What does inflation mean

The Bank of England website says the average increase in prices is known
as the inflation rate. So if inflation is 3%, it means prices are 3%
higher (on average) than they were a year ago. For example, if a loaf of
bread cost £1 a year ago and now it’s £1.03 then its price has risen by
3%

Graphic

Inflation has dropped below 10 percent for the first time since last
year

Load-Date: May 24, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Inflation drops below 10 percent for first time since last year - what
it means for you

Sussex Express

May 24, 2023 Wednesday

Copyright 2023 JPIMedia Publishing Ltd All Rights Reserved

[]

Section: READ THIS

Length: 273 words

Highlight: Inflation has dropped below 10 percent for the first time
since last year

Body

The rate of inflation is finally back in single digits easing to 8.7%
last month for the first time since last year. According to the Office
for National Statistics this figure is down from the 10.1% recorded in
March as  gas and electricity costs remained stable compared to the
unprecedented leap recorded in the same month last year.

Last spring saw the energy price cap lifted by 54% to £1,971 to reflect
the impact of Russia’s war in Ukraine on European gas and electricity
supplies. Since the invasion, energy costs have been the main source of
the cost of living crisis which has seen energy bills soar - affecting
the overall economy.

But while the inflation rate has eased, those on budgets will still be
affected as earnings still do not match the rate of price rises. The
Bank of England has been initiating interest rate hikes to try to combat
pressure on prices and to dampen demand in the economy. Meanwhile, there
is speculation on whether bank rates will be raised further next month
following 12 consecutive increases.

According to Sky News energy regulator, Ofgem, is tipped to reveal on
Thursday (May 25) that the price cap will fall to £2,053 per year from
July-September. That is down from the £3,280 level set for March-June
which was largely irrelevant as the government’s Energy Price Guarantee
was in place.

What does inflation mean

The Bank of England website says the average increase in prices is known
as the inflation rate. So if inflation is 3%, it means prices are 3%
higher (on average) than they were a year ago. For example, if a loaf of
bread cost £1 a year ago and now it’s £1.03 then its price has risen by
3%

Graphic

Inflation has dropped below 10 percent for the first time since last
year

Load-Date: May 24, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Inflation drops below 10 percent for first time since last year - what
it means for you

Buchan Observer

May 24, 2023

Copyright 2023 JPIMedia Publishing Ltd All Rights Reserved

[]

Section: READ THIS

Length: 273 words

Highlight: Inflation has dropped below 10 percent for the first time
since last year

Body

The rate of inflation is finally back in single digits easing to 8.7%
last month for the first time since last year. According to the Office
for National Statistics this figure is down from the 10.1% recorded in
March as  gas and electricity costs remained stable compared to the
unprecedented leap recorded in the same month last year.

Last spring saw the energy price cap lifted by 54% to £1,971 to reflect
the impact of Russia’s war in Ukraine on European gas and electricity
supplies. Since the invasion, energy costs have been the main source of
the cost of living crisis which has seen energy bills soar - affecting
the overall economy.

But while the inflation rate has eased, those on budgets will still be
affected as earnings still do not match the rate of price rises. The
Bank of England has been initiating interest rate hikes to try to combat
pressure on prices and to dampen demand in the economy. Meanwhile, there
is speculation on whether bank rates will be raised further next month
following 12 consecutive increases.

According to Sky News energy regulator, Ofgem, is tipped to reveal on
Thursday (May 25) that the price cap will fall to £2,053 per year from
July-September. That is down from the £3,280 level set for March-June
which was largely irrelevant as the government’s Energy Price Guarantee
was in place.

What does inflation mean

The Bank of England website says the average increase in prices is known
as the inflation rate. So if inflation is 3%, it means prices are 3%
higher (on average) than they were a year ago. For example, if a loaf of
bread cost £1 a year ago and now it’s £1.03 then its price has risen by
3%

Graphic

Inflation has dropped below 10 percent for the first time since last
year

Load-Date: May 24, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Inflation drops below 10 percent for first time since last year - what
it means for you

Melton Times

May 24, 2023

Copyright 2023 JPIMedia Publishing Ltd All Rights Reserved

[]

Section: READ THIS

Length: 273 words

Highlight: Inflation has dropped below 10 percent for the first time
since last year

Body

The rate of inflation is finally back in single digits easing to 8.7%
last month for the first time since last year. According to the Office
for National Statistics this figure is down from the 10.1% recorded in
March as  gas and electricity costs remained stable compared to the
unprecedented leap recorded in the same month last year.

Last spring saw the energy price cap lifted by 54% to £1,971 to reflect
the impact of Russia’s war in Ukraine on European gas and electricity
supplies. Since the invasion, energy costs have been the main source of
the cost of living crisis which has seen energy bills soar - affecting
the overall economy.

But while the inflation rate has eased, those on budgets will still be
affected as earnings still do not match the rate of price rises. The
Bank of England has been initiating interest rate hikes to try to combat
pressure on prices and to dampen demand in the economy. Meanwhile, there
is speculation on whether bank rates will be raised further next month
following 12 consecutive increases.

According to Sky News energy regulator, Ofgem, is tipped to reveal on
Thursday (May 25) that the price cap will fall to £2,053 per year from
July-September. That is down from the £3,280 level set for March-June
which was largely irrelevant as the government’s Energy Price Guarantee
was in place.

What does inflation mean

The Bank of England website says the average increase in prices is known
as the inflation rate. So if inflation is 3%, it means prices are 3%
higher (on average) than they were a year ago. For example, if a loaf of
bread cost £1 a year ago and now it’s £1.03 then its price has risen by
3%

Graphic

Inflation has dropped below 10 percent for the first time since last
year

Load-Date: May 24, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Inflation drops below 10 percent for first time since last year - what
it means for you

Northamptonshire Telegraph

May 24, 2023 Wednesday

Copyright 2023 JPIMedia Publishing Ltd All Rights Reserved

[]

Section: READ THIS

Length: 273 words

Highlight: Inflation has dropped below 10 percent for the first time
since last year

Body

The rate of inflation is finally back in single digits easing to 8.7%
last month for the first time since last year. According to the Office
for National Statistics this figure is down from the 10.1% recorded in
March as  gas and electricity costs remained stable compared to the
unprecedented leap recorded in the same month last year.

Last spring saw the energy price cap lifted by 54% to £1,971 to reflect
the impact of Russia’s war in Ukraine on European gas and electricity
supplies. Since the invasion, energy costs have been the main source of
the cost of living crisis which has seen energy bills soar - affecting
the overall economy.

But while the inflation rate has eased, those on budgets will still be
affected as earnings still do not match the rate of price rises. The
Bank of England has been initiating interest rate hikes to try to combat
pressure on prices and to dampen demand in the economy. Meanwhile, there
is speculation on whether bank rates will be raised further next month
following 12 consecutive increases.

According to Sky News energy regulator, Ofgem, is tipped to reveal on
Thursday (May 25) that the price cap will fall to £2,053 per year from
July-September. That is down from the £3,280 level set for March-June
which was largely irrelevant as the government’s Energy Price Guarantee
was in place.

What does inflation mean

The Bank of England website says the average increase in prices is known
as the inflation rate. So if inflation is 3%, it means prices are 3%
higher (on average) than they were a year ago. For example, if a loaf of
bread cost £1 a year ago and now it’s £1.03 then its price has risen by
3%

Graphic

Inflation has dropped below 10 percent for the first time since last
year

Load-Date: May 24, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Chalmers stands firm on inflation

The Age (Melbourne, Australia)

May 11, 2023 Thursday

Print & First Editions

Copyright 2023 The Age Company Limited All Rights Reserved

Section: NEWS; Pg. 1

Length: 246 words

Byline: David Crowe | Chief political correspondent

Body

Treasurer Jim Chalmers says he is "supremely confident" his budget
spending will not increase consumer prices as he defended the plan
against a strident Coalition warning about the risk of higher inflation
from new outlays and new migrants.

Chalmers hit back at accusations of loose spending by insisting the
government would help cut inflation, days after the Reserve Bank cited
household spending as a key factor in its next decision on whether to
lift interest rates.

He also held the line against calls from the Greens to scrap the stage 3
tax cuts that are due to start in 2025 and will cost $69 billion over
four years, insisting there was no change to Labor's decision to accept
them.

With the inflation forecast central to the political fight over the
budget, Opposition Leader Peter Dutton launched an incendiary attack by
claiming the 1.5 million migrants due to arrive over the next five years
would push up prices. But population experts countered the claim by
saying the intake had only a "marginal" impact on prices.

Asked if he would have to take responsibility if the Reserve Bank lifted
interest rates next month, Chalmers said the inflation challenge had
been the "defining influence" on the expenditure review committee of
federal cabinet when it decided the spending measures. "And we are
supremely confident that the budget that we handed down last night will
take some of these cost-of-living pressures off without adding to
inflation," he said.

REPORT Page 1

Load-Date: May 10, 2023

  End of Document

[]

PRICE DROP UK inflation rate drops to 8.7% after record highs – what it
means for your money

thesun.co.uk

May 24, 2023 Wednesday 8:08 AM GMT

Copyright 2023 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD All Rights Reserved

[]

Section: MONEY,NEWS MONEY,COST OF LIVING,INFLATION,MONEY SAVING,UK
INTEREST RATES AND INFLATION; Version:6

Length: 667 words

Byline: Olivia Marshall

Body

THE UK’s rate of inflation fell to 8.7% in April, the latest official
figures show.

It is the first time the rate has dropped below 10% since August last
year.

It is also the second consecutive month the inflation rate has fallen,
after dropping to 10.1% in March following an unexpected rise.

The fall was driven by dips in energy and fuels prices.

But the inflation rate was higher than forecast by economists, who had
pencilled in a drop to 8.2% in April.

Inflation is a measure of how the price of goods and services have
changed over the past year.

It has eased slightly since the eye-watering 11.1% seen in October.

This is driven by soaring gas and electricity prices, which have now
started to fall.

Last April, the energy price cap soared by 54% to £1,971, but this year
the Energy Price Guarantee (EPG) has been kept at £2,500 since last
October.

Ofgem is set to confirm tomorrow that energy prices will fall sharply
for households in July, when the current EPG comes to an end.

ONS chief economist Grant Fitzner said: “The rate of inflation fell
notably as the large energy price rises seen last year were not repeated
this April, but was offset partially by increases in the cost of
second-hand cars and cigarettes.

“However, prices in general remain substantially higher than they were
this time last year, with annual food price inflation near historic
highs.”

The slowdown is good news for stretched households, and most experts
believe inflation has now peaked.

But price are still rising at a near record pace.

Food and non-alcoholic beverage prices saw an annual rise of 19.1% in
April, down only slightly on March’s eye-watering of 19.2%.

It is the second highest seen for over 45 years, when the rate in August
1977 was estimated to be 21.9%.

Chancellor Jeremy Hunt said: “The IMF said yesterday we’ve acted
decisively to tackle inflation but although it is positive that it is
now in single digits, food prices are still rising too fast.”

What does it mean for my money?

Falling inflation indicates that the cost of goods and services are
still rising but at a slower rate.

But prices are still higher than they were.

Alastair Douglas, chief executive of TotallyMoney said: “The cost of
living is still on the rise, as is the cost of borrowing.

“The result? More people are missing bills, more people can’t keep up
with credit commitments, and 50% of adults are feeling more anxious or
stressed as a result of inflation.”

He added that even if the Bank of England hits its 2% inflation target
in 2024, it is likely households will still feel the impact for “years
to come”.

Food and drink prices rose by record levels in the year to March,
putting further strain on household budgets.

Alice Haine, personal finance analyst at Bestinvest, said: “Softening
inflation, is better news for budgets relentlessly battered by the cost
of living crisis over the past 18 months.

“But consumers would be wise to remember that while inflation is
falling, prices are still up by 8.7% compared to a year ago with the
only consolation that the pace of those prices rises is slowing compared
to previous months. “

Experts believe the slowdown in the rate of inflation is unlikely to
stop the Bank of England from hiking interest rates once more at its
meeting in June.

Earlier this month, the central banked hiked interest rates to 4.5% –
heir highest level in 15 years.

The move will make the cost of borrowing, including loans , credit cards
and mortgage repayments more expensive.

Alice added: “With the potential that interest rates could peak at 5%
this year, this will only deliver more pain to those taking out a new
mortgage or on variable rates, who are still struggling to absorb the 12
consecutive rate hikes since December 2021. “

Although it’s good news for savers as they may get better rates on their
nest egg.

Do you have a money problem that needs sorting? Get in touch by emailing
money-sm@news.co.uk

Load-Date: May 24, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Inflation drops below 10 percent for first time since last year - what
it means for you

Banbury Guardian

May 24, 2023 Wednesday

Copyright 2023 JPIMedia Publishing Ltd All Rights Reserved

[]

Section: READ THIS

Length: 273 words

Highlight: Inflation has dropped below 10 percent for the first time
since last year

Body

The rate of inflation is finally back in single digits easing to 8.7%
last month for the first time since last year. According to the Office
for National Statistics this figure is down from the 10.1% recorded in
March as  gas and electricity costs remained stable compared to the
unprecedented leap recorded in the same month last year.

Last spring saw the energy price cap lifted by 54% to £1,971 to reflect
the impact of Russia’s war in Ukraine on European gas and electricity
supplies. Since the invasion, energy costs have been the main source of
the cost of living crisis which has seen energy bills soar - affecting
the overall economy.

But while the inflation rate has eased, those on budgets will still be
affected as earnings still do not match the rate of price rises. The
Bank of England has been initiating interest rate hikes to try to combat
pressure on prices and to dampen demand in the economy. Meanwhile, there
is speculation on whether bank rates will be raised further next month
following 12 consecutive increases.

According to Sky News energy regulator, Ofgem, is tipped to reveal on
Thursday (May 25) that the price cap will fall to £2,053 per year from
July-September. That is down from the £3,280 level set for March-June
which was largely irrelevant as the government’s Energy Price Guarantee
was in place.

What does inflation mean

The Bank of England website says the average increase in prices is known
as the inflation rate. So if inflation is 3%, it means prices are 3%
higher (on average) than they were a year ago. For example, if a loaf of
bread cost £1 a year ago and now it’s £1.03 then its price has risen by
3%

Graphic

Inflation has dropped below 10 percent for the first time since last
year

Load-Date: May 24, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Inflation likely to fall to single figures for first time in months

The Press and Journal

May 24, 2023 Wednesday

Edition 1, National Edition

Copyright 2023 Aberdeen Journals Ltd All Rights Reserved

[]

Section: NEWS; Pg. 29

Length: 238 words

Body

Inflation is expected to fall sharply to reach single figures for the
first time in eight months when official figures are released today as
rises in the cost of living slow.

The Office for National Statistics is set to reveal Consumer Prices
Index (CPI) inflation dropping to 8.2% in April from 10.1% in March -
the first time it has been below 10% since August last year - according
to most economists.

The predicted fall will reflect last April's sky-high rise in energy
prices dropping out of the calculation, with the energy price cap having
jumped higher a year ago as wholesale prices rocketed after Russia's
invasion of Ukraine.

Last April, the energy price cap soared by 54% to £1,971, but this year
the Energy Price Guarantee has been kept at £2,500 since last October.

The drop in inflation is likely to strengthen the case for the Bank of
England to keep interest rates at 4.5%, after voting for 12 successive
hikes in a row in a bid to calm the cost crisis, according to Samuel
Tombs at Pantheon Macroeconomics.

He is also forecasting some welcome relief for families with a drop in
food price inflation to 18% from 19.1% in March.

Mr Tombs said: "We expect April's CPI report to lay the foundations for
a hold vote at the monetary policy committee's next meeting.

"But with data for May due to be published the day before the June
policy announcement, markets still will need to price-in some risk of
further tightening."

Graphic

Shoppers could soon notice a difference at the tills.

Load-Date: May 24, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Inflation drops below 10 percent for first time since last year - what
it means for you

Stornoway Gazette

May 24, 2023 Wednesday

Copyright 2023 JPIMedia Publishing Ltd All Rights Reserved

[]

Section: READ THIS

Length: 273 words

Highlight: Inflation has dropped below 10 percent for the first time
since last year

Body

The rate of inflation is finally back in single digits easing to 8.7%
last month for the first time since last year. According to the Office
for National Statistics this figure is down from the 10.1% recorded in
March as  gas and electricity costs remained stable compared to the
unprecedented leap recorded in the same month last year.

Last spring saw the energy price cap lifted by 54% to £1,971 to reflect
the impact of Russia’s war in Ukraine on European gas and electricity
supplies. Since the invasion, energy costs have been the main source of
the cost of living crisis which has seen energy bills soar - affecting
the overall economy.

But while the inflation rate has eased, those on budgets will still be
affected as earnings still do not match the rate of price rises. The
Bank of England has been initiating interest rate hikes to try to combat
pressure on prices and to dampen demand in the economy. Meanwhile, there
is speculation on whether bank rates will be raised further next month
following 12 consecutive increases.

According to Sky News energy regulator, Ofgem, is tipped to reveal on
Thursday (May 25) that the price cap will fall to £2,053 per year from
July-September. That is down from the £3,280 level set for March-June
which was largely irrelevant as the government’s Energy Price Guarantee
was in place.

What does inflation mean

The Bank of England website says the average increase in prices is known
as the inflation rate. So if inflation is 3%, it means prices are 3%
higher (on average) than they were a year ago. For example, if a loaf of
bread cost £1 a year ago and now it’s £1.03 then its price has risen by
3%

Graphic

Inflation has dropped below 10 percent for the first time since last
year

Load-Date: May 24, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Inflation drops below 10 percent for first time since last year - what
it means for you

Falkirk Herald

May 24, 2023

Copyright 2023 JPIMedia Publishing Ltd All Rights Reserved

[]

Section: READ THIS

Length: 273 words

Highlight: Inflation has dropped below 10 percent for the first time
since last year

Body

The rate of inflation is finally back in single digits easing to 8.7%
last month for the first time since last year. According to the Office
for National Statistics this figure is down from the 10.1% recorded in
March as  gas and electricity costs remained stable compared to the
unprecedented leap recorded in the same month last year.

Last spring saw the energy price cap lifted by 54% to £1,971 to reflect
the impact of Russia’s war in Ukraine on European gas and electricity
supplies. Since the invasion, energy costs have been the main source of
the cost of living crisis which has seen energy bills soar - affecting
the overall economy.

But while the inflation rate has eased, those on budgets will still be
affected as earnings still do not match the rate of price rises. The
Bank of England has been initiating interest rate hikes to try to combat
pressure on prices and to dampen demand in the economy. Meanwhile, there
is speculation on whether bank rates will be raised further next month
following 12 consecutive increases.

According to Sky News energy regulator, Ofgem, is tipped to reveal on
Thursday (May 25) that the price cap will fall to £2,053 per year from
July-September. That is down from the £3,280 level set for March-June
which was largely irrelevant as the government’s Energy Price Guarantee
was in place.

What does inflation mean

The Bank of England website says the average increase in prices is known
as the inflation rate. So if inflation is 3%, it means prices are 3%
higher (on average) than they were a year ago. For example, if a loaf of
bread cost £1 a year ago and now it’s £1.03 then its price has risen by
3%

Graphic

Inflation has dropped below 10 percent for the first time since last
year

Load-Date: May 24, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Inflation drops below 10 percent for first time since last year - what
it means for you

Burnley Express

May 24, 2023

Copyright 2023 JPIMedia Publishing Ltd All Rights Reserved

[]

Section: READ THIS

Length: 273 words

Highlight: Inflation has dropped below 10 percent for the first time
since last year

Body

The rate of inflation is finally back in single digits easing to 8.7%
last month for the first time since last year. According to the Office
for National Statistics this figure is down from the 10.1% recorded in
March as  gas and electricity costs remained stable compared to the
unprecedented leap recorded in the same month last year.

Last spring saw the energy price cap lifted by 54% to £1,971 to reflect
the impact of Russia’s war in Ukraine on European gas and electricity
supplies. Since the invasion, energy costs have been the main source of
the cost of living crisis which has seen energy bills soar - affecting
the overall economy.

But while the inflation rate has eased, those on budgets will still be
affected as earnings still do not match the rate of price rises. The
Bank of England has been initiating interest rate hikes to try to combat
pressure on prices and to dampen demand in the economy. Meanwhile, there
is speculation on whether bank rates will be raised further next month
following 12 consecutive increases.

According to Sky News energy regulator, Ofgem, is tipped to reveal on
Thursday (May 25) that the price cap will fall to £2,053 per year from
July-September. That is down from the £3,280 level set for March-June
which was largely irrelevant as the government’s Energy Price Guarantee
was in place.

What does inflation mean

The Bank of England website says the average increase in prices is known
as the inflation rate. So if inflation is 3%, it means prices are 3%
higher (on average) than they were a year ago. For example, if a loaf of
bread cost £1 a year ago and now it’s £1.03 then its price has risen by
3%

Graphic

Inflation has dropped below 10 percent for the first time since last
year

Load-Date: May 24, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Inflation drops below 10 percent for first time since last year - what
it means for you

Daventry Express

May 24, 2023

Copyright 2023 JPIMedia Publishing Ltd All Rights Reserved

[]

Section: READ THIS

Length: 273 words

Highlight: Inflation has dropped below 10 percent for the first time
since last year

Body

The rate of inflation is finally back in single digits easing to 8.7%
last month for the first time since last year. According to the Office
for National Statistics this figure is down from the 10.1% recorded in
March as  gas and electricity costs remained stable compared to the
unprecedented leap recorded in the same month last year.

Last spring saw the energy price cap lifted by 54% to £1,971 to reflect
the impact of Russia’s war in Ukraine on European gas and electricity
supplies. Since the invasion, energy costs have been the main source of
the cost of living crisis which has seen energy bills soar - affecting
the overall economy.

But while the inflation rate has eased, those on budgets will still be
affected as earnings still do not match the rate of price rises. The
Bank of England has been initiating interest rate hikes to try to combat
pressure on prices and to dampen demand in the economy. Meanwhile, there
is speculation on whether bank rates will be raised further next month
following 12 consecutive increases.

According to Sky News energy regulator, Ofgem, is tipped to reveal on
Thursday (May 25) that the price cap will fall to £2,053 per year from
July-September. That is down from the £3,280 level set for March-June
which was largely irrelevant as the government’s Energy Price Guarantee
was in place.

What does inflation mean

The Bank of England website says the average increase in prices is known
as the inflation rate. So if inflation is 3%, it means prices are 3%
higher (on average) than they were a year ago. For example, if a loaf of
bread cost £1 a year ago and now it’s £1.03 then its price has risen by
3%

Graphic

Inflation has dropped below 10 percent for the first time since last
year

Load-Date: May 24, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Inflation drops below 10 percent for first time since last year - what
it means for you

Bedford Today

May 24, 2023

Copyright 2023 JPIMedia Publishing Ltd All Rights Reserved

[]

Section: READ THIS

Length: 273 words

Highlight: Inflation has dropped below 10 percent for the first time
since last year

Body

The rate of inflation is finally back in single digits easing to 8.7%
last month for the first time since last year. According to the Office
for National Statistics this figure is down from the 10.1% recorded in
March as  gas and electricity costs remained stable compared to the
unprecedented leap recorded in the same month last year.

Last spring saw the energy price cap lifted by 54% to £1,971 to reflect
the impact of Russia’s war in Ukraine on European gas and electricity
supplies. Since the invasion, energy costs have been the main source of
the cost of living crisis which has seen energy bills soar - affecting
the overall economy.

But while the inflation rate has eased, those on budgets will still be
affected as earnings still do not match the rate of price rises. The
Bank of England has been initiating interest rate hikes to try to combat
pressure on prices and to dampen demand in the economy. Meanwhile, there
is speculation on whether bank rates will be raised further next month
following 12 consecutive increases.

According to Sky News energy regulator, Ofgem, is tipped to reveal on
Thursday (May 25) that the price cap will fall to £2,053 per year from
July-September. That is down from the £3,280 level set for March-June
which was largely irrelevant as the government’s Energy Price Guarantee
was in place.

What does inflation mean

The Bank of England website says the average increase in prices is known
as the inflation rate. So if inflation is 3%, it means prices are 3%
higher (on average) than they were a year ago. For example, if a loaf of
bread cost £1 a year ago and now it’s £1.03 then its price has risen by
3%

Graphic

Inflation has dropped below 10 percent for the first time since last
year

Load-Date: May 24, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Inflation drops below 10 percent for first time since last year - what
it means for you

Derbyshire Times

May 24, 2023

Copyright 2023 JPIMedia Publishing Ltd All Rights Reserved

[]

Section: READ THIS

Length: 273 words

Highlight: Inflation has dropped below 10 percent for the first time
since last year

Body

The rate of inflation is finally back in single digits easing to 8.7%
last month for the first time since last year. According to the Office
for National Statistics this figure is down from the 10.1% recorded in
March as  gas and electricity costs remained stable compared to the
unprecedented leap recorded in the same month last year.

Last spring saw the energy price cap lifted by 54% to £1,971 to reflect
the impact of Russia’s war in Ukraine on European gas and electricity
supplies. Since the invasion, energy costs have been the main source of
the cost of living crisis which has seen energy bills soar - affecting
the overall economy.

But while the inflation rate has eased, those on budgets will still be
affected as earnings still do not match the rate of price rises. The
Bank of England has been initiating interest rate hikes to try to combat
pressure on prices and to dampen demand in the economy. Meanwhile, there
is speculation on whether bank rates will be raised further next month
following 12 consecutive increases.

According to Sky News energy regulator, Ofgem, is tipped to reveal on
Thursday (May 25) that the price cap will fall to £2,053 per year from
July-September. That is down from the £3,280 level set for March-June
which was largely irrelevant as the government’s Energy Price Guarantee
was in place.

What does inflation mean

The Bank of England website says the average increase in prices is known
as the inflation rate. So if inflation is 3%, it means prices are 3%
higher (on average) than they were a year ago. For example, if a loaf of
bread cost £1 a year ago and now it’s £1.03 then its price has risen by
3%

Graphic

Inflation has dropped below 10 percent for the first time since last
year

Load-Date: May 24, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Inflation drops below 10 percent for first time since last year - what
it means for you

Derry Journal

May 24, 2023

Copyright 2023 JPIMedia Publishing Ltd All Rights Reserved

[]

Section: READ THIS

Length: 273 words

Highlight: Inflation has dropped below 10 percent for the first time
since last year

Body

The rate of inflation is finally back in single digits easing to 8.7%
last month for the first time since last year. According to the Office
for National Statistics this figure is down from the 10.1% recorded in
March as  gas and electricity costs remained stable compared to the
unprecedented leap recorded in the same month last year.

Last spring saw the energy price cap lifted by 54% to £1,971 to reflect
the impact of Russia’s war in Ukraine on European gas and electricity
supplies. Since the invasion, energy costs have been the main source of
the cost of living crisis which has seen energy bills soar - affecting
the overall economy.

But while the inflation rate has eased, those on budgets will still be
affected as earnings still do not match the rate of price rises. The
Bank of England has been initiating interest rate hikes to try to combat
pressure on prices and to dampen demand in the economy. Meanwhile, there
is speculation on whether bank rates will be raised further next month
following 12 consecutive increases.

According to Sky News energy regulator, Ofgem, is tipped to reveal on
Thursday (May 25) that the price cap will fall to £2,053 per year from
July-September. That is down from the £3,280 level set for March-June
which was largely irrelevant as the government’s Energy Price Guarantee
was in place.

What does inflation mean

The Bank of England website says the average increase in prices is known
as the inflation rate. So if inflation is 3%, it means prices are 3%
higher (on average) than they were a year ago. For example, if a loaf of
bread cost £1 a year ago and now it’s £1.03 then its price has risen by
3%

Graphic

Inflation has dropped below 10 percent for the first time since last
year

Load-Date: May 24, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Inflation drops below 10 percent for first time since last year - what
it means for you

Hucknall Dispatch

May 24, 2023

Copyright 2023 JPIMedia Publishing Ltd All Rights Reserved

[]

Section: READ THIS

Length: 273 words

Highlight: Inflation has dropped below 10 percent for the first time
since last year

Body

The rate of inflation is finally back in single digits easing to 8.7%
last month for the first time since last year. According to the Office
for National Statistics this figure is down from the 10.1% recorded in
March as  gas and electricity costs remained stable compared to the
unprecedented leap recorded in the same month last year.

Last spring saw the energy price cap lifted by 54% to £1,971 to reflect
the impact of Russia’s war in Ukraine on European gas and electricity
supplies. Since the invasion, energy costs have been the main source of
the cost of living crisis which has seen energy bills soar - affecting
the overall economy.

But while the inflation rate has eased, those on budgets will still be
affected as earnings still do not match the rate of price rises. The
Bank of England has been initiating interest rate hikes to try to combat
pressure on prices and to dampen demand in the economy. Meanwhile, there
is speculation on whether bank rates will be raised further next month
following 12 consecutive increases.

According to Sky News energy regulator, Ofgem, is tipped to reveal on
Thursday (May 25) that the price cap will fall to £2,053 per year from
July-September. That is down from the £3,280 level set for March-June
which was largely irrelevant as the government’s Energy Price Guarantee
was in place.

What does inflation mean

The Bank of England website says the average increase in prices is known
as the inflation rate. So if inflation is 3%, it means prices are 3%
higher (on average) than they were a year ago. For example, if a loaf of
bread cost £1 a year ago and now it’s £1.03 then its price has risen by
3%

Graphic

Inflation has dropped below 10 percent for the first time since last
year

Load-Date: May 24, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Inflation drops below 10 percent for first time since last year - what
it means for you

Fraserburgh Herald

May 24, 2023

Copyright 2023 JPIMedia Publishing Ltd All Rights Reserved

[]

Section: READ THIS

Length: 273 words

Highlight: Inflation has dropped below 10 percent for the first time
since last year

Body

The rate of inflation is finally back in single digits easing to 8.7%
last month for the first time since last year. According to the Office
for National Statistics this figure is down from the 10.1% recorded in
March as  gas and electricity costs remained stable compared to the
unprecedented leap recorded in the same month last year.

Last spring saw the energy price cap lifted by 54% to £1,971 to reflect
the impact of Russia’s war in Ukraine on European gas and electricity
supplies. Since the invasion, energy costs have been the main source of
the cost of living crisis which has seen energy bills soar - affecting
the overall economy.

But while the inflation rate has eased, those on budgets will still be
affected as earnings still do not match the rate of price rises. The
Bank of England has been initiating interest rate hikes to try to combat
pressure on prices and to dampen demand in the economy. Meanwhile, there
is speculation on whether bank rates will be raised further next month
following 12 consecutive increases.

According to Sky News energy regulator, Ofgem, is tipped to reveal on
Thursday (May 25) that the price cap will fall to £2,053 per year from
July-September. That is down from the £3,280 level set for March-June
which was largely irrelevant as the government’s Energy Price Guarantee
was in place.

What does inflation mean

The Bank of England website says the average increase in prices is known
as the inflation rate. So if inflation is 3%, it means prices are 3%
higher (on average) than they were a year ago. For example, if a loaf of
bread cost £1 a year ago and now it’s £1.03 then its price has risen by
3%

Graphic

Inflation has dropped below 10 percent for the first time since last
year

Load-Date: May 24, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Inflation drops below 10 percent for first time since last year - what
it means for you

Dewsbury Reporter

May 24, 2023

Copyright 2023 JPIMedia Publishing Ltd All Rights Reserved

[]

Section: READ THIS

Length: 273 words

Highlight: Inflation has dropped below 10 percent for the first time
since last year

Body

The rate of inflation is finally back in single digits easing to 8.7%
last month for the first time since last year. According to the Office
for National Statistics this figure is down from the 10.1% recorded in
March as  gas and electricity costs remained stable compared to the
unprecedented leap recorded in the same month last year.

Last spring saw the energy price cap lifted by 54% to £1,971 to reflect
the impact of Russia’s war in Ukraine on European gas and electricity
supplies. Since the invasion, energy costs have been the main source of
the cost of living crisis which has seen energy bills soar - affecting
the overall economy.

But while the inflation rate has eased, those on budgets will still be
affected as earnings still do not match the rate of price rises. The
Bank of England has been initiating interest rate hikes to try to combat
pressure on prices and to dampen demand in the economy. Meanwhile, there
is speculation on whether bank rates will be raised further next month
following 12 consecutive increases.

According to Sky News energy regulator, Ofgem, is tipped to reveal on
Thursday (May 25) that the price cap will fall to £2,053 per year from
July-September. That is down from the £3,280 level set for March-June
which was largely irrelevant as the government’s Energy Price Guarantee
was in place.

What does inflation mean

The Bank of England website says the average increase in prices is known
as the inflation rate. So if inflation is 3%, it means prices are 3%
higher (on average) than they were a year ago. For example, if a loaf of
bread cost £1 a year ago and now it’s £1.03 then its price has risen by
3%

Graphic

Inflation has dropped below 10 percent for the first time since last
year

Load-Date: May 24, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Inflation drops below 10 percent for first time since last year - what
it means for you

Wakefield Express

May 24, 2023 Wednesday

Copyright 2023 JPIMedia Publishing Ltd All Rights Reserved

[]

Section: READ THIS

Length: 273 words

Highlight: Inflation has dropped below 10 percent for the first time
since last year

Body

The rate of inflation is finally back in single digits easing to 8.7%
last month for the first time since last year. According to the Office
for National Statistics this figure is down from the 10.1% recorded in
March as  gas and electricity costs remained stable compared to the
unprecedented leap recorded in the same month last year.

Last spring saw the energy price cap lifted by 54% to £1,971 to reflect
the impact of Russia’s war in Ukraine on European gas and electricity
supplies. Since the invasion, energy costs have been the main source of
the cost of living crisis which has seen energy bills soar - affecting
the overall economy.

But while the inflation rate has eased, those on budgets will still be
affected as earnings still do not match the rate of price rises. The
Bank of England has been initiating interest rate hikes to try to combat
pressure on prices and to dampen demand in the economy. Meanwhile, there
is speculation on whether bank rates will be raised further next month
following 12 consecutive increases.

According to Sky News energy regulator, Ofgem, is tipped to reveal on
Thursday (May 25) that the price cap will fall to £2,053 per year from
July-September. That is down from the £3,280 level set for March-June
which was largely irrelevant as the government’s Energy Price Guarantee
was in place.

What does inflation mean

The Bank of England website says the average increase in prices is known
as the inflation rate. So if inflation is 3%, it means prices are 3%
higher (on average) than they were a year ago. For example, if a loaf of
bread cost £1 a year ago and now it’s £1.03 then its price has risen by
3%

Graphic

Inflation has dropped below 10 percent for the first time since last
year

Load-Date: May 24, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Inflation drops below 10 percent for first time since last year - what
it means for you

Luton Today

May 24, 2023

Copyright 2023 JPIMedia Publishing Ltd All Rights Reserved

[]

Section: READ THIS

Length: 273 words

Highlight: Inflation has dropped below 10 percent for the first time
since last year

Body

The rate of inflation is finally back in single digits easing to 8.7%
last month for the first time since last year. According to the Office
for National Statistics this figure is down from the 10.1% recorded in
March as  gas and electricity costs remained stable compared to the
unprecedented leap recorded in the same month last year.

Last spring saw the energy price cap lifted by 54% to £1,971 to reflect
the impact of Russia’s war in Ukraine on European gas and electricity
supplies. Since the invasion, energy costs have been the main source of
the cost of living crisis which has seen energy bills soar - affecting
the overall economy.

But while the inflation rate has eased, those on budgets will still be
affected as earnings still do not match the rate of price rises. The
Bank of England has been initiating interest rate hikes to try to combat
pressure on prices and to dampen demand in the economy. Meanwhile, there
is speculation on whether bank rates will be raised further next month
following 12 consecutive increases.

According to Sky News energy regulator, Ofgem, is tipped to reveal on
Thursday (May 25) that the price cap will fall to £2,053 per year from
July-September. That is down from the £3,280 level set for March-June
which was largely irrelevant as the government’s Energy Price Guarantee
was in place.

What does inflation mean

The Bank of England website says the average increase in prices is known
as the inflation rate. So if inflation is 3%, it means prices are 3%
higher (on average) than they were a year ago. For example, if a loaf of
bread cost £1 a year ago and now it’s £1.03 then its price has risen by
3%

Graphic

Inflation has dropped below 10 percent for the first time since last
year

Load-Date: May 24, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Inflation drops below 10 percent for first time since last year - what
it means for you

Yorkshire Post

May 24, 2023 Wednesday

Copyright 2023 JPIMedia Publishing Ltd All Rights Reserved

[]

Section: READ THIS

Length: 273 words

Highlight: Inflation has dropped below 10 percent for the first time
since last year

Body

The rate of inflation is finally back in single digits easing to 8.7%
last month for the first time since last year. According to the Office
for National Statistics this figure is down from the 10.1% recorded in
March as  gas and electricity costs remained stable compared to the
unprecedented leap recorded in the same month last year.

Last spring saw the energy price cap lifted by 54% to £1,971 to reflect
the impact of Russia’s war in Ukraine on European gas and electricity
supplies. Since the invasion, energy costs have been the main source of
the cost of living crisis which has seen energy bills soar - affecting
the overall economy.

But while the inflation rate has eased, those on budgets will still be
affected as earnings still do not match the rate of price rises. The
Bank of England has been initiating interest rate hikes to try to combat
pressure on prices and to dampen demand in the economy. Meanwhile, there
is speculation on whether bank rates will be raised further next month
following 12 consecutive increases.

According to Sky News energy regulator, Ofgem, is tipped to reveal on
Thursday (May 25) that the price cap will fall to £2,053 per year from
July-September. That is down from the £3,280 level set for March-June
which was largely irrelevant as the government’s Energy Price Guarantee
was in place.

What does inflation mean

The Bank of England website says the average increase in prices is known
as the inflation rate. So if inflation is 3%, it means prices are 3%
higher (on average) than they were a year ago. For example, if a loaf of
bread cost £1 a year ago and now it’s £1.03 then its price has risen by
3%

Graphic

Inflation has dropped below 10 percent for the first time since last
year

Load-Date: May 24, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Inflation drops below 10 percent for first time since last year - what
it means for you

Ellon Times

May 24, 2023

Copyright 2023 JPIMedia Publishing Ltd All Rights Reserved

[]

Section: READ THIS

Length: 273 words

Highlight: Inflation has dropped below 10 percent for the first time
since last year

Body

The rate of inflation is finally back in single digits easing to 8.7%
last month for the first time since last year. According to the Office
for National Statistics this figure is down from the 10.1% recorded in
March as  gas and electricity costs remained stable compared to the
unprecedented leap recorded in the same month last year.

Last spring saw the energy price cap lifted by 54% to £1,971 to reflect
the impact of Russia’s war in Ukraine on European gas and electricity
supplies. Since the invasion, energy costs have been the main source of
the cost of living crisis which has seen energy bills soar - affecting
the overall economy.

But while the inflation rate has eased, those on budgets will still be
affected as earnings still do not match the rate of price rises. The
Bank of England has been initiating interest rate hikes to try to combat
pressure on prices and to dampen demand in the economy. Meanwhile, there
is speculation on whether bank rates will be raised further next month
following 12 consecutive increases.

According to Sky News energy regulator, Ofgem, is tipped to reveal on
Thursday (May 25) that the price cap will fall to £2,053 per year from
July-September. That is down from the £3,280 level set for March-June
which was largely irrelevant as the government’s Energy Price Guarantee
was in place.

What does inflation mean

The Bank of England website says the average increase in prices is known
as the inflation rate. So if inflation is 3%, it means prices are 3%
higher (on average) than they were a year ago. For example, if a loaf of
bread cost £1 a year ago and now it’s £1.03 then its price has risen by
3%

Graphic

Inflation has dropped below 10 percent for the first time since last
year

Load-Date: May 24, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Macri: "The government never wanted to lower inflation".

CE Noticias Financieras English

May 15, 2023 Monday

Copyright 2023 Content Engine, LLC.

All Rights Reserved

Copyright 2023 CE Noticias Financieras All Rights Reserved

Length: 358 words

Body

A few hours before the government's economic team announces new measures
to contain inflation, which on Friday reached 8.4 percent in April,
former president Mauricio Macri criticized the official policy to
address the problem and fired: "This government never wanted to lower
inflation".

Through his social networks, the PRO leader said that it is "inaccurate"
to say that the President, Alberto Fernández, and the Minister of
Economy, Sergio Massa, are failing in their fight against inflation. And
he argued: "Because they are not even trying. They have not taken a
single measure in these years to lower it. Neither price controls nor
police patrols in supermarkets are of any use," he said.

And he added: "The only thing that is useful is to get order. To put
public accounts in order and that the Central Bank never ever prints
banknotes to finance the State, for example".

At the same time, he cited cases of other countries of the continent
"that also suffered hyperinflation as we did" and today have "less
inflation in a year than we have in a month".

A few hours after the April inflation measured by Indec, which was 8.4
percent, and a day before Sergio Massa's team announces a package of new
measures, which, it is presumed, includes an increase in interest rates,
Macri criticized the policies of the Frente de Todos.

"They have wrong, old and marginal ideas about why inflation exists.
They insist on 'lack of dollars', 'internal restriction' or
'multi-causal inflation', concepts that nobody uses anymore, except in
Venezuela".

With that argument, the former president expressed in his social
networks account that he is not surprised by the evolution of the
current inflation. "With wrong ideas and political cowardice they were
never going to do well" with the problem, he said.

And he described, "Every month they are surprised with the Indec data,
as if it were a matter of magic."

"They don't realize that they are doing absolutely nothing to lower it.
On the contrary: they continue to increase spending, for politics and
for a few. It is the Government's own actions that push it up",
concluded the former president in a harsh post.

Load-Date: May 16, 2023

  End of Document
