[]

NEMETHY: Some thoughts on inflation

Intellinews - Poland Today

May 7, 2023 Sunday

Copyright 2023 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC All Rights
Reserved

[]

Length: 849 words

Body

I have been writing that we are facing a period of high inflation since
long before it was fashionable. Now I believe that, on the balance of
probability, we face an entire decade of high inflation.

That's not to say that inflation cannot decrease at times during the
decade (e.g. if there is a recession) - just as in the 1970s, there were
ups and downs of inflation - but overall it was one of the most
inflationary decades on record.

In the first part of this article, I will briefly summarise my reasons
for my "decade of inflation" prognosis. In the second part, I will offer
evidence that inflation is not accidental, but a deliberate act of theft
by governments, and finally, a conclusion. The 2020s are likely to be a
decade of inflation

This section does not purport to be comprehensive. It summarises just
four of the great inflationary structural changes that are happening in
the world today: Deglobalisation. Factories are no longer built where
factory costs are optimised; security of supply chain has become a much
more significant consideration. This inevitably results in higher
prices, as do interruptions to supply lines and the need to stock more
inventory. Demographics. A demographic implosion results in labour
becoming more scarce, putting upward pressure on labour costs. Green
energy. Green energy is more expensive than fossil energy. The more we
substitute fossil fuels with green energy, the more it drives up energy
costs. A dearth of green energy minerals will further drive up green
energy costs. Policy shifts towards green energy has made fossil fuel
providers reluctant to invest in expanding or even replacing fossil fuel
capacity, for fear of being left with stranded assets, hence fossil fuel
prices are also driven up. War economy. Just as the United States tried
to achieve "guns and butter" in the late 1960s and 70s (the Vietnam war
and Johnson's "Great Society"), so too, governments today are spending
lavishly on everything from COVID relief to social security, while the
Ukraine war (and other conflicts or threatened conflicts) are increasing
military spending. Deficit financing is funded by expanded money supply.
Government guarantees of bank loans. These are experiencing surprising
growth on both sides of the Atlantic, encouraging banks to lend more,
once again, fuelling growth in money supply and inflation. Inflation is
not accidental but a deliberate act of theft

In defence of the above proposition, I offer the thoughts of a number of
great thinkers. These are some of my favourite quotes on inflation,
collected over a decade:

By a continuing process of inflation, government can confiscate,
secretly and unobserved, an important part of the wealth of its
citizens.

- J.M. Keynes

The most important thing is to understand that inflation is not an act
of God, it is not a natural disaster, and it is not a disease. Inflation
is a political strategy.

- Ludwig von Mises

I do not think it is an exaggeration to say history is largely a history
of inflation, usually inflations engineered by governments for the gain
of governments.

- Friedrich A. Hayek

Most of those in political office, quite understandably, are firmly
against inflation and firmly in favour of policies producing it.

- Warren Buffet

The first panacea of a mismanaged nation is inflation of the currency;
the second is war. Both bring a temporary prosperity; both bring a
permanent ruin. But both are the refuge of political and economic
opportunists.

- Ernest Hemingway

Inflation is always an evasion of reality - an attempt to maintain an
artificial prosperity ... [Leaders] have been backed into a corner by
events and lack the moral courage or the political support to institute
fundamental reforms, which would require them to inflict pain on the
mass of commoners and vanquish powerful elites... ...rulers bereft of
backbone, ingenuity and capital attempt to postpone the impending crisis
by inflating...

- William Ophuls, author of "Immoderate Greatness: Why Civilizations
Fail"

Inflation is not caused by the actions of private citizens, but by the
government: by an artificial expansion of the money supply required to
support deficit spending. No private embezzlers or bank robbers in
history have ever plundered people's savings on a scale comparable to
the plunder perpetrated by the fiscal policies of statist governments. -
Ayn Rand

Inflation, however, can only continue as long as there is the opinion
that it will cease in the foreseeable future. Once the conviction is
established that inflation will not stop, panic breaks out.

- Ludwig von Mises Some concluding comments

I might add that probably the only politically palatable way that
politicians can make our debt levels more manageable again is to inflate
them away, by keeping the inflation rate a few percentage points higher
than the interest rate. Given that we are facing a record amount of debt
ever accumulated by humanity - some 370% of global GDP - there will be
very little option but to inflate it away. Perhaps this is even the
responsible course of action.

Load-Date: May 8, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Hot Sale and inflation: prices were inflated before the event and it is
going to hit the May issue

CE Noticias Financieras English

May 19, 2023 Friday

Copyright 2023 Content Engine, LLC.

All Rights Reserved

Copyright 2023 CE Noticias Financieras All Rights Reserved

Length: 214 words

Body

The Hot Sale 2023 ended with sales growing at the pace of inflation.
According to the Argentine Chamber of Electronic Commerce (CACE), it
invoiced $ 86,000 million during the three days of the online event.
This is more than $ 20 million per minute and 6.8 million products sold
in 72 hours, 11% more than in 2022.

In terms of turnover, the growth was similar to inflation. While this
year the record reached $ 86.39 billion, in 2022 that number had been $
42.1 billion. This represented an increase of 109%, similar to the
accumulated inflation in the last 12 months, which, according to Indec
data, reached 108%.

However, this was not the only effect that the week of discounts had on
inflation. According to a survey by Emmanuel Alvarez Agis' consulting
firm PxQ, companies increased the prices of certain product segments
before the Hot Sale offers, which would have an inflationary effect for
this month.

Link to Image

In the case of cell phones, the consulting firm assures that mid-range
cell phones jumped $10,000 while in the high-end segment the jump was
$30,000.

Link to Image

Something similar happened with TV sets. According to PxQ, 43-inch TVs
went from $58,000 to $62,000.

Link to Image

White goods went up, according to the survey, by almost 15%, from
$250,000 to $280,000.

Load-Date: May 20, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Hunt rules out tax cuts amid inflation battle

Scottish Express

May 25, 2023 Thursday

Edition 1, Scotland

Copyright 2023 Express Newspapers All Rights Reserved

Section: NEWS; Pg. 9

Length: 450 words

Byline: Martyn Brown

Body

JEREMY Hunt has dashed hopes of tax cuts in the near future as he warned
"the battle is far from over" on inflation.

The Chancellor said it would be "wrong" to inflate the economy by
slashing taxes while prices remain "worryingly high".

Rishi Sunak said food inflation is "too high" and promised the
Government was doing everything possible to bring prices down.

The duo's comments came as official figures showed inflation plunged to
8.7 per cent in April as easing energy costs offered some relief to
struggling families.

It means prices are still rising, but at a slower rate than in March,
when the rate was 10.1 per cent.

Market analysts yesterday predicted the Bank of England will have to
keep raising interest rates - possibly as high as 5.5 per cent from the
current 4.5 per cent - to help bring down inflation further.

Pledge

Mr Hunt welcomed the latest figures but doused the hopes of some
backbench Conservative MPs as he signalled tax cuts are some way off.

He said: "What is a tax cut? A tax cut is putting money in people's
pockets so they can spend more.

g y p "The biggest way that I can put money in people's pockets so they
have more to spend is to halve inflation because that is eroding 10 per
cent of the value of people's pay packets, or has been over the last
year.

ve nflation ng ue , eight he rther "So right now, to reflate the economy
with further stimulation would mean that monetary policy and fiscal
policy were pointing in opposite directions.

"That would be the wrong thing to do.

"If we want to cut taxes in the long run, as all Conservatives want to
do, because I believe in a low-tax economy, the number one task is to
get inflation down.

"We're doing everything we can to help families and we will continue to
try and support people.

"But one thing we won't do are measures that mean that inflation becomes
more persistent or sticky."

The Bank of England said there is still a chance the Government will
meet its pledge to halve inflation this year after a drop in April.

Andrew Bailey, the bank's governor, said the drop below double digits
for inflation, for the first time in eight months, marks a welcome
decline.

Nevertheless, the financial chief admitted food price inflation is
taking longer than expected to fall.

He said: "We listen to industry and industry leaders do say that food
inflation will fall this year, but it is taking longer to fall than
expected."

o weath

" The bank said food prices have been hit by a series of "shocks" after
Russia's invasion of Ukraine, including extreme weather and vegetable
hortages. But it is "determined" to get inflation down to its two per
cent target.

Bu determine inflatio tw targe

Mr Bailey added: "That is our job and we will do it."

Graphic

Looking ahead... Mr Hunt g t

Load-Date: May 25, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Food inflation rate UK: food and drink products with the biggest rise in
inflation between March and April 2023

National World

May 24, 2023 Wednesday

Copyright 2023 JPIMedia Publishing Ltd All Rights Reserved

[]

Section: MONEYUK

Length: 925 words

Highlight: Potatoes, pasta and sugar are among some of the staple food
products where inflation rates were still increasing in April according
to the ONS.

Body

UK food inflation fell marginally in April, figures released today (24
May) by the Office for National Statistics (ONS) show – but it is still
rising for some staple food products including flour, sugar and
potatoes. 

The latest ONS Consumer Prices Index (CPI) data shows overall inflation
in the UK fell to 8.7% in April  – the first time it has been in single
digits since last August. But food prices remain significantly inflated,
despite a slight drop in the rate of inflation. 

A drop in inflation does not mean cheaper prices, simply that prices are
rising less quickly. In March, food inflation was at 19.6%, meaning
prices were 19.6% higher than they were a year ago. In April, this fell
to 19.3% – so consumers are still paying almost a fifth more than they
were in April 2022. Our money editor Henry Sandercock has previously
explained how the CPI is calculated. 

For non-alcoholic drinks, inflation was at 16.5%, compared to 14.6% in
March (although this had come down from 16% in February). The ONS
figures show that for some types of food and non-alcoholic beverages,
the rate of inflation is still climbing, with increases of up to 7.2
percentage points month on month. 

The worst affected type of items were in a category called ‘other milk
products’, where inflation rose from 16.2% to 23.4%. This includes milk
alternatives such as soya, as well as cream and milk-based products like
milkshakes and desserts – although the data does not show which items
specifically drove the increase for the category. 

The chart below shows how the inflation rate continued to change for a
selection of staple food products. Can't see the chart? You can open it
in a new window here.

There was also a hefty rise in inflation for fruit and vegetable juices,
from 14.1% in March to 21.1% in April. 

The 10 products with the biggest rises in the inflation rate between
March and April were:

-   Other milk products – up 7.2 percentage points from 16.2% to 23.4%

1.  Fruit and vegetable juices – up 7 percentage points, from 14.1% to
      21.1%

1.  Flours and other cereals – up 6.6 percentage points, from 23.4% to
      30%

1.  Sugar – up 5.3 percentage points, from 42.1% to 47.4%

1.  Eggs – up five percentage points from 32% to 37%

1.  Potatoes – up 4.4 percentage points, from 20.4% to 24.8%

1.  Pasta products and couscous – up 3.6 percentage points, from 24.1%
      to 27.7%

1.  Margarine and other vegetable fats – up 3.4 percentage points, from
      15.6% to 19%

1.  Other tubers and products of tuber vegetables – up 3.2 percentage
      points, from 2% to 5.2%

1.  Mineral or spring waters – up 3.1 percentage points, from 18.3% to
      21.4%

1.  Yoghurt – up 2.1 percentage points, from 21.9% to 24%

1.  Pork – up two percentage points, from 25.2% to 27.2%

1.  Rice – up 1.9 percentage points, from 13% to 14.9%

1.  Fresh or chilled vegetables (excluding potatoes and other tubers) –
      up 1.7 percentage points, from 20.5% to 22.2%

1.  Dried fruit and nuts – up 1.4 percentage points, from 5.8% to 7.2%

Some products however did see significant drops in inflation in the
latest month. The biggest drop was for milk, with inflation down 11.6
percentage points, from 37.9% to 26.3%. There was also a drop for cheese
and curd, butter, and olive oil – although inflation still remains
extremely high for all these products, with shoppers paying far more
than they would have done a year ago.

The 15 products with the biggest drop in inflation were:

-   Whole milk – down 11.6 percentage points, from 37.9% to 26.3%

1.  Edible ices and ice cream – down 6.5 percentage points, from 24.3%
      to 17.8%

1.  Pizza and quiche – down 5.3 percentage points, from 17.2% to 11.9%

1.  Low fat milk – down 5.3 percentage points, from 38.8% to 33.5%

1.  Cocoa and powdered chocolate – down 4.5 percentage points, from
      24.5% to 20%

1.  Crisps – down 3.4 percentage points, from 17.9% to 14.5%

1.  Meat preparations (eg pies, tinned meat, pates) – down 3.3
      percentage points, from 23.6% to 20.3%

1.  Non-frozen preserved or processed fish and seafood products (eg
      tinned tuna) – down 3.3 percentage points, from 18.2% to 14.9%

1.  Frozen seafood – down 3.1 percentage points, from 11.2% to 8.1%

1.  Jams, marmalades and honey – down three percentage points, from
      20.9% to 17.9%

1.  Cheese and curd – down three percentage points, from 33.6% to 30.6%

1.  Olive oil – down 2.8 percentage points, from 49.2% to 46.4%

1.  Butter – down 2.6 percentage points, from 22.7% to 20.1%

1.  Poultry – down 1.4 percentage points, from 18% to 16.6%

1.  Bakery products excluding bread (eg biscuits, crumpets, cakes) –
      down 1.3 percentage points, from 25.3% to 24%

What did the ONS say about inflation?

The ONS said food and non-alcoholic beverage prices continued to
contribute heavily to high annual inflation in April – the annual
inflation rate was the second highest seen for over 45 years, according
to their estimates for the period before current records began in 1989. 

It said that price rises in potatoes, tubers, and other vegetables had
had the biggest impact on keeping inflation high between March and
April. 

ONS chief economist Grant Fitzner said: “The rate of inflation fell
notably as the large energy price rises seen last year were not repeated
this April, but was offset partially by increases in the cost of
second-hand cars and cigarettes. However, prices in general remain
substantially higher than they were this time last year, with annual
food price inflation near historic highs.”

Chancellor Jeremy Hunt said that while it is “positive” to see inflation
ease to single digits, “food prices are still rising too fast”. You can
read more on the Chancellor's reaction, and plans to help families, in
our latest article.

Graphic

UK food inflation fell slightly in April - but it is still rising for
many key food and drink items (Image: NationalWorld/Kim Mogg/Adobe)

Load-Date: May 24, 2023

  End of Document

[]

'INFLATION TAX' HITS HARD

The Australian

May 15, 2023 Monday

Australian Edition

Copyright 2023 Nationwide News Pty Limited All Rights Reserved

Section: BUSINESS; Pg. 17

Length: 815 words

Byline: Paul Bloxham

Body

Bracket creep has boosted revenue for the government The budget is in
much better shape than had been expected and a key reason for this is
that inflation is high. After all, inflation is like a tax on savers and
benefits debtors. The government is a net debtor and its fiscal accounts
are benefiting from high inflation.

For the budget, high inflation primarily helps by increasing tax
revenue. Personal income taxpayers move into higher tax brackets
(so-called bracket creep) and the goods and services tax take is boosted
by faster rising prices. Although government payments also inflate, the
net effect is to boost taxes, particularly at a time of full employment.

At the same time, the budget has benefited from higher than expected
commodity prices.

A perennial feature of Australian official budget estimates is that the
Treasury assumes that iron ore, coal and other commodity prices fall
back to low levels rather quickly. In recent years this working
assumption has helped to almost always guarantee an upside revenue
surprise on budget day. The impact of the Russia-Ukraine war
super-charged this effect in the past couple of budgets by boosting
commodity prices and increasing Australia's tax revenues from its
resource exports.

The "inflation tax" is working its magic, so to speak. It has
contributed to an increase in tax revenues, a budget surplus and lower
government debt projections. The upside surprise to revenue over the
five-year estimates was a substantial $131bn. Indeed, despite massive
pandemic-related fiscal spending, net government debt is now expected to
be similar to its pre-pandemic level, at 22.3 per cent of GDP, in
2023-24.

Understanding the increased inflation tax provides important context for
the discussion about whether to repeal the already legislated "stage
three" personal income tax cuts due to come into effect in July 2024. In
short, bracket creep has already delivered a substantial rise in
personal income tax over the past couple of years.

To give some sense of scale, consider this. The much-dis-cussed sharp
rise in household interest payments as a result of the rapid rise in
interest rates has been pretty much matched by the size of households'
tax payments over the past year - a double hit to households' bottom
lines.

The budget estimates themselves show personal tax revenue this year that
is $33bn more than was expected prior to the sharp rise in inflation,
back in the March 2022 budget. Relative to where we were in early 2022,
the stage three tax adjustments are not so much tax cuts as a reduction
in the tax rises that the inflation tax has already delivered.

On the other side of the budget, the cost of living pressures for
households prompted the government to announce new spending measures.
These included a boost to unemployment benefits, energy bill subsidies
and rental assistance. After all, it is a key role of fiscal policy to
appropriately redistribute income across the economy and to protect the
vulnerable members of the community.

The challenge, however, is that at a time when the economy is already
operating at its full capacity - and inflation is already high - any
boost to spending is likely to add to inflation.

The budget sought to take this into account by not adding much fiscal
stimulus, given already high inflation. As the Treasurer, Jim Chalmers,
pointed out, over the two budgets of this government 87 per cent of the
upside surprise to revenue has been saved. A valiant attempt to be
cautious, yes, but it is still the case that any net additional spending
is likely to support inflation.

Another option would have been to consider offsetting the new spending
with spending cuts or tax rises elsewhere. This was done - partly, but
not fully - through raising taxes on gas producers and wealthy
households with large super balances.

In terms of spending cuts some of the hard decisions, such as reform to
the disability insurance scheme, were included in the budget estimates,
although the details have not been firmed up.

One of the weaker elements of the budget was the absence of plans for
medium-term reform, particularly spending challenges or policies aimed
at trying lift Australia's low productivity growth.

For the RBA, while the spending boost is likely to be seen as modest,
the risks of inflation falling a bit more slowly have increased.
However, our view is that the RBA took the bulk of the expected budget
decisions into account when it lifted its cash rate by another 25bps to
3.85 per cent in May. As a result, we do not expect another hike in
June. At the same time, we should not expect rate cuts soon and the
budget supports that case.

Although inflation has passed its peak, it is still high. This may be
good news for the budget bottom line but keep in mind that the
higher-than-usual inflation tax has not been repealed quite yet. Paul
Bloxham is the chief economist of HSBC Australia.

Load-Date: May 14, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Japan fiscal 2022 real wages fall most in 8 years as inflation bites

Philippines Daily Inquirer

May 23, 2023 Tuesday

Copyright 2023 Philippines Daily Inquirer All Rights Reserved

Length: 252 words

Body

Japan's inflation-adjusted real wages fell the most in eight years in
the fiscal 2022 year, government data showed on Tuesday, as the rising
cost of living overwhelmed workers' nominal pay, government data showed
on Tuesday.

The labor ministry data underscored the challenge for Prime Minister
Fumio Kishida's government to kick the world's third largest economy
into higher gear through a virtuous cycle of inflation and wage growth.

Nominal wages rose 1.9 percent in the last fiscal year ended in March,
the fastest increase in 31 years, but inflation at 3.8 percent outpaced
those pay gains, resulting in real wages falling 1.8 percent in fiscal
2022, the data showed.

It was the biggest yearly decline since fiscal 2014 when the sales tax
hikes stoked broader increases in prices and pushing real wages down by
2.9 percent.

The data suggested that wages must rise even more to outpace inflation
and help boost consumers' purchasing power and private consumption that
makes up more than half the economy.

Major firms have agreed to raise wages by nearly 4 percent this year,
the fastest gain in three decades, in a sign cautious Japanese firms see
the need of improving pay to secure skilled workers in the face of a
labor crunch in the fast-ageing population.

In Japan, wages have barely grown over the past three 'lost decades'
since the burst of the asset-inflated bubble economy. In comparison,
other Group of Seven (G7) economies saw wages rising at a much stronger
pace of around 1.4 times during the same period.

Load-Date: May 25, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Inflation, the main concern

The Financial Express (Bangladesh)

May 21, 2023 Sunday

Copyright 2023 The Financial Express All Rights Reserved

Length: 977 words

Dateline: Dhaka

Body

Dhaka, May 21 -- The best indicator of any economy is the common
people's standard of living. So, from that point of view, it cannot be
said that the economy of the country is performing well. To be frank,
the per capita income as measured by dividing the Gross Domestic Product
(GDP) by the country's population is an abstract figure and does not say
much about the actual income of the common people. The latest figure on
the nation's per capita income, for example, as told by the Bangladesh
Bureau of Statistics (BBS), is US$2,765. In the last financial year (FY
2021-22), it was US$2,793. This means, in the current fiscal, the
national per capita income has dropped by US$28, which, in percentage,
is equivalent to a reduction of 1.0 per cent from what it was in the
last financial year.

But even after the fall, which the BBS attributes to the depreciation of
taka against US dollar, the figure for the country's per head annual
income in local currency is still Tk298,620 (assuming 1 US$ equal to
Tk108 as of May 17). Dividing it by 12, the monthly income of people
comes to around Tk 24,885. But does this figure really reflect the
actual income of an average citizen? Even if one accepts for argument's
sake that the daily wage labourers, rickshaw and pushcart drivers,
domestic workers, small traders (hawkers, for instance) and the
fixed-income earners in the lowest income category (the so-called Class
IV employees) really earn this amount of money every month, will it be
enough to feed an average four-member family, let alone meet its other
costs including house rent, healthcare and education for children? But
the truth is the low-income people, who make up the overwhelming
majority of the population, earn far below that amount. And given the
galloping prices of essential commodities, rising transport fares and
inflating healthcare costs, it is becoming increasingly difficult even
for the average middle-income families to make both ends meet. In truth,
it is the runaway inflation that is now the main concern of the members
of the general public. At a recent discussion event organised by the
Bangladesh Institute of Development Studies (BIDS), a multidisciplinary
development-focused autonomous public research body, speakers stressed
the urgency of bringing the inflation under control. When the inflation
rate is falling in the global context, it is showing an upward trend in
Bangladesh, they pointed out. In last March, the Consumer Price Index
(CPI) rose to as high as 9.33 per cent, though last month (in April) it
slightly fell to 9.24 per cent. Compared to last year (April, 2022),
when the CPI was 6.29, last April's CPI figure at 9.24 registered an
increase of 2.95 percentage points. This is as good as saying that the
CPI in April 2023 increased by close to 47 per cent [increase in
percentage points (2.95) divided by the base year's (April 2022's)
CPI(6.29)].Of course, the depreciating taka against the US dollar (USD)
is directly connected to the rising prices of imported commodities
including food grains, edible oils and spices, which is driving up
inflation. But food prices are falling, not increasing, in the
international market. Even so, the prices of those goods in the local
market are showing no sign of decreasing. One of the speakers, Ahsan H
Mansur, executive director of the private think tank, Policy Research
Institute, held that difference in taka-USD exchange rate may account
for 20 to 25 per cent increase in commodity prices. But the prices of
edible oil and sugar both of which are mostly imported commodities have
gone up by 100 per cent. How to explain it? So, there is no shortcut way
of explaining away the inflation as the product of depreciation of taka,
Ukraine war and so on and so forth.

The falling forex reserve has evidently triggered an increase in the
demand for USD, a factor driving down the value of taka. It is common
knowledge that it (forex reserve crisis) has been falling due mainly to
the decline in the volume of inward remittance through official channel
and the earning from export staying at a moderate level. The government
has already been exercising austerity, especially in terms of government
expenditures in foreign currency as well as import control. Meanwhile,
the current account is also running a deficit of US$2.21 billion during
the last three quarters of the current fiscal year, though during the
same period in the last fiscal it was enjoying a surplus of US$11.92
billion, the Bangladesh Bank (BB) records say. A negative current
account balance is not in itself alarming, but it may not be so when the
foreign currency earning is on the decline and the forex reserve is fast
depleting. What is further concerning is that in such a situation
businesses as well as individuals try to save US dollar thereby further
depreciating the value of taka. Obviously, such behaviour on the part of
some businesses and individuals leads to pushing up inflation. The 9.0
per cent interest rate cap, some economists suggested, should be
withdrawn to make funds costlier with a view to taming inflation. But
there is no silver bullet to address a problem as complicated as
inflation. To be fair, leaving everything to the market is also not
going to resolve the issue.

So, the government will have to adopt a raft of measures to control
inflation. A foolproof measure has to be put in place to deal with
hundi-a major driver of taka's depreciation against USD as well as the
fall in the forex reserve. To reduce hundi's demand, corporate
management has to be strengthened. Also, transfer of remittance dollars
should be made easier and faster.

[email protected]

Published by HT Digital Content Services with permission from The
Financial Express. For any query with respect to this article or any
other content requirement, please contact Editor at
contentservices@htlive.com

Load-Date: May 21, 2023

  End of Document

[]

The false dilemma of inflation or growth

CE Noticias Financieras English

May 14, 2023 Sunday

Copyright 2023 Content Engine, LLC.

All Rights Reserved

Copyright 2023 CE Noticias Financieras All Rights Reserved

Length: 536 words

Body

Inflation is the hidden tax. And the rulers always try to hide the loss
of purchasing power or blame anyone but the only one that makes most
prices go up at the same time: printing money well above the real demand
for it.

The CPI in April reflects an increase of 4.1%, eight tenths in annual
rate. Food prices rose by 12.9% year-on-year. Additionally, in
month-on-month rate, meat rises by 1.2%, bread and cereals by 0.5%,
sugar and confectionery by 1.6%, clothing by 8.3%, accommodation
services by 12%, fuels by 1.1%, footwear by 5.5%... All this in one
month.

The Government's failure to contain inflation is evident. The CPI has
increased by 15.18% since Sánchez has been in office. The underlying has
risen by 13.25%. Since December 2019 inflation (CPI) has risen by 13.9%
and since December 2021 by 9.3%.

As Dr. Juan Manuel López-Zafra explains, it is false that the rise in
core inflation is moderating, as the Government claims. The variation
rate in two years has been, in January, 9.57%, in February 10.83%, in
March 11.12% and in April 11.29%.

So nothing... to print money with an "expansive look" as required by the
PSOE's program, which called for monetizing public expenditure, or by
Sumar's program, which calls for the same.

They try to convince us that we have to choose between inflation and
growth, but this is a false dilemma. Inflation is generalized
impoverishment and certainly does not imply growth. In fact, the
evidence from Spain is stagflation.

No stagflation? If GDP has not recovered between December 2019 and the
first quarter of 2023, public debt has increased by 300 billion euros
and cumulative inflation in that period is 13.9%, it is unquestionable
that Spain is in serious stagflation.

Inflation is the evidence of a dangerous imbalance that impoverishes
everyone. It is the sign of the generalized loss of the purchasing power
of the currency and a transfer of wealth from the productive sectors and
families to the Government, which is the only beneficiary of inflation
since it collects more and dilutes part of its indebtedness. But the
voracious deficit state is not even capable of reducing its imbalances
with inflation. It embarks on even more spending, assumes that
extraordinary revenues are recurrent, and instead of reducing debt, it
increases it.

Those who advocate inflationism as a way to reduce debt forget that the
first inflationist, the Government, embarks on shooting up imbalances
even more whether it has record revenues or not. A government that has
relied on all the tools of the misnamed Keynesianism and leaves an even
worse result: If Lord Maynard Keynes were to raise his head and see the
government shoot up taxes, increase the structural deficit and
impoverish all citizens with the biggest drop in purchasing power in the
European Union, he would demand that his name not be used to justify
this disaster.

Growth does not come from indebtedness, public spending and inflation.
Growth comes from savings and prudent investment.

What we are experiencing is a slow expropriation of the wealth created
by the productive sector for the sole purpose of massively inflating
political spending with an extractive and confiscatory strategy.
Inflation is theft.

Load-Date: May 15, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Changing approach to inflation management

The Nation (Nigeria)

May 15, 2023 Monday

Copyright 2023 The Nation All Rights Reserved

Length: 1966 words

Body

The battle against spiraling inflation entered a new phase with the
Central Bank of Nigeria's (CBN) decision to adopt inflation targeting
framework to price stability. The framework, which is also being
implemented by central banks of several African countries, is expected
to strengthen Nigerians' purchasing power, disposable income, drive
aggregate demand and stimulate production. The CBN will also conduct
in-house modeling and simulations of economic variables to ensure the
framework achieves its core mandate of price stability, writes Assistant
Business Editor COLLIN NWEZE.

The devastating effects of rising inflation are felt by households and
businesses across the nooks and crannies of the country.

That is why price stability is one of the core mandates of the Central
Bank of Nigeria (CBN), which has adopted inflation targeting framework.

The framework, which replaces the exchange rate targeting framework,
will be implemented with the backing of the people.

To ensure its success, the CBN Monetary Policy Department held its
Annual Retreat in Lagos, where stakeholders pointed the way forward for
Nigeria's journey to price stability.

CBN Director, Monetary Policy Department, Mahmud Hassan, said moving
from the exchange rate targeting framework to the inflation targeting
framework aligned with the apex bank's determination to bring inflation
upsurge under control in line with its price stability mandate.

He said inflation uptick has remained a major concern to the CBN and is
the time to use monetary policy tools to control it.

Already, the data from the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) showed
that marginal increase in headline inflation was 21.82 per cent in
January 2023; 21.91 per cent in February and 22.04 per cent in March.

Also, the money supply (M3), which is a key ingredient in inflation
uptick grew by 13.14 per cent (annualised) in February 2023
(year-to-date), below the 2023 provisional annual benchmark of 17.18 per
cent.

This was driven by the growth in Net Foreign Assets (NFA), which was
attributed to the increase in foreign asset holdings of the CBN and
decrease in foreign claims on Other Depository Corporations (ODCs).

Speaking on the theme: Monetary Targeting Policy Framework in Nigeria -
An Appraisal of its Continued Relevance to the Price Stability Mandate,
Hasssan said the monetary policy has had to contend with shocks,
including the global financial crisis.

The event was attended by Jack Ree of the International Monetary Fund
(IMF); Prof Robert Mudida, Director of Research, Central Bank of Kenya
(CBK); and Dr. Philip Abradu-Otoo, Director of Research, Bank of Ghana
(BoG); and staff members of the Monetary Policy Department of the CBN,
among others.

Hassan said the various oil price shocks, Covid-19 pandemic, and most
recently, the war between Russia and Ukraine, have resulted in various
shocks to the global economy, requiring changing responses to subdue the
monetary and fiscal authorities in the advanced and emerging market
economies.

To address these shocks, he said the CBN migrated from an exchange rate
targeting framework to phased migration and now inflation targeting
framework.

He said the CBN has been controlling the growth of money supply to
achieve price stability, but over time, the effectiveness of that
strategy in achieving price stability in Nigeria had been called into
question.

'One of the main challenges has been the difficulty of accurately
measuring and controlling the money supply in the face of financial
innovation and the growth of non-bank financial institutions. In
addition, the relationship between the money supply and inflation has
become less predictable in recent years, further complicating the use of
monetary targeting as a policy tool,' he said.

Hassan added: 'Ultimately, the central bank will need to interrogate the
continued relevance of the monetary targeting framework to address the
series of new and developing shocks impacting the economy, as well as
the advantages the inflation targeting framework may hold for us as a
central bank.'

Also, the CBN Deputy Governor, Economic Policy Directorate, Dr. Kingsley
Obiora, saideconomies had witnessed harsh economic conditions, which
they had to deal with over the past few years.

He said crude oil prices have fluctuated significantly over the past few
years, making managing the exchange rate and inflation significantly
difficult for monetary policy.

He explained that, at inception, the CBN adopted an exchange rate
targeting framework with the Nigerian Pound exchanging at parity with
the British Pound Sterling. The policy target under this framework was
the maintenance of the viability of the Balance of Payments (BoP) and
controlling inflation in the domestic economy.

Obiora said in the economy, rapid technological advancements and
competition are changing not only the way we do business, but also the
definition of money.

'The rapidly changing macroeconomic environment has meant that the
continued reliance on money supply growth as a reliable guide to the
trend of price development has become questionable, not just among
central bankers but also among academics,' he said.

Obiora said the relationship between money supply growth and the money
multiplier has become blurred due to the instability in the money
multiplier, making it difficult to set appropriate targets for money
supply growth.

'It has become pertinent against this backdrop for the CBN to consider
the pros and cons of a transition to a new monetary policy framework to
improve our ability to continue to anchor inflation expectations,' he
stated.

Headwinds persist

The increasing headwinds at home and abroad constitute a major reason
for the framework. For instance, the Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) met
on March 20 and 21, this year, faced with headwinds, undermining the
full recovery of the global economy.

The CBN had, in March, raised the benchmark lending rate to 18 per cent
to contain the inflation.

In January, the MPC raised its lending rate from 16.5 per cent to 17.5
per cent in a sustained push to control inflation and ease pressure on
the naira.

CBN Governor, Godwin Emefiele listed the headwinds as the recent bank
failures in the United States and Switzerland, amid widespread monetary
policy tightening, which introduced a new dimension to the risks
confronting the global financial system, as well as, the persisting
high, but receding global inflation.

He said the war between Russia and Ukraine and its implications to the
smooth functioning of the global supply chain also remained a critical
strain on the recovery of global output growth.

He said in the domestic economy, output recovery progressed at a
relatively moderate pace, while headline inflation trended upwards,
albeit less aggressively, driven mainly by a marginal increase in food
inflation.

Growth vs price stability

Data from the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) showed that last year
the Real Gross Domestic Product (GDP) grew by 3.10 per cent.

In the fourth quarter of last year, it grew by 3.52 per cent, compared
with 3.98 per cent in the corresponding period of the previous year and
2.25 per cent in the preceding quarter. The economy maintained a
positive growth trajectory for nine consecutive quarters, since
recession in 2020.

The improved performance was driven by sustained growth in the services
and agricultural sectors, a rebound in economic activities associated
with economic recovery and continued intervention in growth enhancing
sectors by the bank. Staff projections showed that output growth
recovery is expected to continue into 2023 and 2024.

Data on the CBN's interventions in domestic economy showed that between
January and February, this year, the apex bank disbursed N12.65 billion
to three agricultural projects under the Anchor Borrowers' Programme
(ABP), bringing the cumulative disbursement under the Programme to N1.09
trillion to over 4.6 million smallholder farmers cultivating or rearing
21 agricultural commodities on an approved 6.02 million hectares of
farmland.

The bank also released N23.70 billion under the N1 trillion Real Sector
Facility to eight new real sector projects in agriculture,
manufacturing, and services.Cumulative disbursements under the Real
Sector Facility currently stands at N2.43 trillion, disbursed to 462
projects across the country, comprising257 manufacturing, 95
agriculture, 97 services and 13 mining sector projects.

Under the '100 for 100' Policy on Production and Productivity (PPP), the
bank also released N3.01 billion under the Nigerian Electricity Market
Stabilisation Facility (NEMSF-2) for capital and operational expenditure
of distribution companies (DisCos) aimed at improving their liquidity
status and aid their recovery of legacy debt. This brings the cumulative
disbursement under the facility to N254.39 billion.

According to Obiora, inflation is not an end, but a means to an end,
adding that output should be meaningful to the people.

'We are dealing with not only slow growth, but high inflation.
Aggressive monetary policy tightening is happening, but it is having
adverse effects on banks at the global arena. The three banks that
collapsed in the US are phenomenal. In all of these, the Nigerian
financial system is still stable,' he said.

For instance, what started with the collapse of the Silicon Valley Bank
on March 10 was followed by strains in other US regional lenders before
the failure of Credit Suisse a week or so later and most recently of the
US's First Republic.

According to him, Nigeria has had double digit inflation in the last
eight to nine years, raising questions on whether monetary policy is
helping to moderate inflations.

He said the time had come to change to a new model that would address
inflation fears for the economy.

Emefiele speaks on inflation spike

Emefiele had last year lamented the spate of inflation and the impact of
foreign exchange shortage on achieving national development goals.

For him, inflation rate is at an unacceptable level and higher inflation
needs to be tackled with tools that can potentially constrain the
economy's fragile output growth and cause stagflation.

Emefiele explained that due to the resumed uptick of inflation rate in
February, last year, the MPC raised its policy rate several times adding
that the monetary policy tightening measures have led to subdued
aggregate demand pressures expected to ease inflation.

He explained that the combined efforts of the monetary and fiscal
authorities to ramp up food supply and tackle age long structural
challenges are also expected to moderate inflation expectations and
drive down food and core prices in the medium-term.

Raising fears over monetary policy tightening, a staff of Finance and
Development of World Bank, Marjorie Henriquez, said central banks
tightening monetary policy should expect loan defaults within their
economies.

In a report entitled: 'Early Lessons from Recent Banking Turmoil',
Henriquez advised central banks against monetary policy tightening
adding that the central banks should adopt other tools to achieve price
stability.

She said the short-term interest rate is the principal instrument in a
tightening cycle, and a liquidity injection can be implemented to deal
with financial stability problems without jeopardising price stability.

In recent years, central banks have proactively intervened as liquidity
providers and learned to do this in a timelier manner than in the past.

Other analysts recommended that a broad-based harmonisation of fiscal
and monetary policies towards addressing the identified structural
constraints raising inflation figures will significantly help to
moderate inflationary pressure in the medium term.

Load-Date: May 16, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Our endemic inflation

Dawn (Pakistan)

May 20, 2023 Saturday

Copyright 2023 Dawn All Rights Reserved

Section: Vol. 77; No. 138

Length: 1072 words

Body

HAS inflation in Pakistan become endemic? In terms of its intensity, the
spell of inflation being experienced today has not been witnessed
earlier. Consumer Price Index (CPI) inflation has been running at over
30 per cent, year-on-year (YoY), for the last three months. The
intensity with which weekly inflation is rising (over 40pc) in terms of
the Sensitive Price Indicator shows that CPI inflation will remain very
high in the coming months.

Pakistan has never experienced YoY inflation higher than 30pc, although
it has come close to it a few times. April 2023 was the 11th consecutive
month in which inflation was over 20pc, and the 18th consecutive month
where it was more than 10pc. We have seen much longer spells of CPI
inflation in our history, but all less than 30pc YoY.

The longest round of high inflation (greater than 10pc) in Pakistan was
seen from February 1972 to January 1976 - 47 months in a row.
Surprisingly, that spell started much earlier than the international oil
price shock of October 1973 when the price of crude oil jumped from $3
per barrel to almost $12 - a four-fold, or 300pc, increase. Inflation
then had been running between 10pc to 22pc, even before the shock that
jolted the entire world. Of the 47 months mentioned, inflation was
higher than 20pc over 25 consecutive months. One of the main reasons for
higher inflation was the fact that money supply growth exceeded its
long-term average over a year earlier than the oil price shock. Hence,
both demand-pull and cost-push factors were responsible for high
inflation in our country in the 1970s.

Compared to the longest spell of high inflation in the 1970s, the high
inflation episode of 2007-08, that was immediately followed by the
global financial crisis (accompanied by the oil price shock) was
relatively shortlived. Oil prices rose from $87 per barrel in January
2007 to $194 in June 2008, but quickly came down to $64 in January 2009
before stabilising at $120. While CPI inflation rose to as high as
26.1pc in August 2008, the inflation spell (higher than 10pc) was
confined to 18 months from January 2008 to June 2009. During this
period, inflation was higher than 20pc for nine consecutive months.
Money supply growth was higher than normal since March 2007, which was
another factor behind the high inflation.

The present inflation should be analysed in the context of historical
perspective.

The high inflation spell of the 1990s was also very long (if we ignore a
few months between October 1993 and September 1997). It was as long as
48 months. Inflation during this period was mostly above 10pc, but never
went higher than 15pc on a YoY basis. As usual with other episodes of
high inflation, this period was also preceded by high growth of money
supply. Inflation was ultimately reined in by containing money growth to
its long-term average during the mid-1990s. A similar, but less
extensive spell occurred in the early 1980s preceded by high growth in
money supply.

The present round of inflation should be analysed in the context of this
historical perspective of high inflation episodes. Causes of current
inflation include both cost-push and demand-pull (including an
accommodative monetary policy) factors. But the underlying reasons are
much more complex than in earlier spells. One example of complexity is
embedded in how the State Bank is managing the allocation of available
foreign exchange to importers. It has erected a system of prioritised
allocation, which is like rationing foreign exchange and results in
extremely high, and discriminatory prices of imported items that have
low priority. For example, a Philips LED bulb which cost as little over
Rs200 last year is now priced at Rs600.

This system is inferior to one which relies on a market-based exchange
rate for allocating foreign exchange. While the rationing effectively
constrains imports, it ironically accentuates the shortage of foreign
exchange by creating a sizable wedge between the official and kerb
market exchange rates. Higher hawala-hundi rates lower the supply of
remittances through banking channels, causing import prices to rise
further. A true market-based exchange rate would also have raised the
domestic prices of imports with the pass-through of the exchange rate.
However, the price increase would be much lower than that being
witnessed currently under a system akin to rationing, and with an
artificially depressed exchange rate. Hence inflationary pressures are
much higher.

Another major reason for high inflation is the prevailing political
instability. Consumer and business confidence indices are at their
lowest levels. Several research studies abroad and here establish a
positive link between the measures of political instability and
inflation. Research published in SBP Working Paper No. 29 (2009)
presents a strong case in this respect for Pakistan. The state's
fragility is deteriorating day by day with critical institutions at
loggerheads with each other. The Fund for Peace, an international
organisation, prepares the Fragile State Index for 179 countries
including Pakistan and releases it annually. According to its 2022
report, Pakistan with an index of 89.7 ranks as the 30th most fragile
state among 179 countries. The higher the index level, the lower the
level of stability. More fragile countries include Burkina Faso, Lebanon
and Guinea Bissau, etc.

Why does inflation become higher when there's low citizen confidence and
greater political instability? One reason is that producers of goods and
services face greater uncertainty regarding their rising costs of
inputs. Under normal circumstances they reprice their products once or
twice a year to maintain their profit margins. In uncertain times, along
with rationing import procedures, they are sure of rising input costs,
but unsure about the margin by which they will increase; they reprice
their products very frequently out of nervousness. Hence inflation rises
more quickly. The profit margins of producers may also rise in this
situation.

It seems that high inflation will be here for an exceptionally long
spell, even if we see some reduction in the coming months due to base
effects. The way to break the spell of high inflation lies in reducing
political tensions, holding free and fair elections, and moving towards
a credible macroeconomic adjustment programme with the IMF's help.
Otherwise, the risk of hyper-inflation and default will escalate.

Load-Date: May 20, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Inflation fall only slight

Stoke The Sentinel

May 25, 2023 Thursday

Edition 1, National Edition

Copyright 2023 Local World All Rights Reserved

Section: NEWS; Pg. 12

Length: 418 words

Body

SOARING food prices have seen UK inflation ease back far less than
expected in April, keeping up the pressure on households and raising the
spectre of yet more interest rate rises.

The Office for National Statistics said Consumer Prices Index (CPI)
inflation fell to its lowest level for more than a year last month, at
8.7% down from 10.1% in March, as energy prices stabilised after
sky-high rises a year ago.

But it was higher than forecast by economists, who had pencilled in a
drop to 8.2% in April, and more than the Bank of England had predicted
just two weeks ago.

The figures showed food inflation at 19.3%, down only slightly on
March's eye-watering 19.6% and remaining close to the highest rate for
more than 45 years.

Chancellor Jeremy Hunt admitted food prices are "still rising too fast".

He said: "Today's fall in inflation... shows we're on the right track
but there is no room for complacency.

"It's tough right now but things will get better."

Economists said another rise in interest rates was looking increasing
likely after inflation had not fallen as fast as hoped.

London's FTSE 100 Index slumped by 1.6% in mid-morning trading yesterday
as the inflation surprise led to bets of more rate rises, compounding
global market fears over a US debt deal.

Rates are at 4.5% because the Bank of England has voted for 12
successive hikes in a row to try to curb the cost crisis, and financial
markets are pricing in rates to hit nearly 5.5% after the latest
inflation shock.

Samuel Tombs, at Pantheon Macroeconomics, said April's inflation
decrease was "too small a drop for the Monetary Policy Committee (MPC)
to stop hiking in June".

Martin Beck, chief economic adviser to the EY Item Club, said: "Today's
inflation data raises the chances of a further rate rise at the MPC's
meeting next month.

"However, with the MPC set to see another round of labour market and
inflation data released before the June meeting, today's data doesn't
mean a further rate increase next month is a certainty."

The steep fall in CPI, to its lowest level since last March, reflects
last year's initial sky-high rises in power bills dropping out of the
calculation.

Last April, the energy price cap leapt up by 54% to £1,971 after
Russia's invasion of Ukraine sent wholesale gas and electricity prices
rocketing, but this year the Energy Price Guarantee (EPG) has been kept
at £2,500 since last October.

Ofgem is set to confirm today that energy prices will fall sharply for
households in July, when the current EPG comes to an end.

Graphic

Chancellor of the Exchequer Jeremy Hunt

Load-Date: May 25, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Inflation

Pakistan Observer

May 13, 2023 Saturday

Copyright 2023 Hurmat Group All Rights Reserved

Section: Vol. 34; No. 131

Length: 241 words

Byline: AMNA IMRAN-Lahore

Body

Inflation is the percentage change in the value of the wholesale price
index on a year on year basis. Inflation is the most talked about word
in a society. Inflation is a most common problem in society today. It is
impossible for the poor to eat one meal a day due to inflation.
Inflation badly affects human life.

There are many causes of inflation. One problem of inflation is
corruption, when there is corruption there is always intolerable
inflation. Another cause of inflation is Dynastic politics, which can be
validated as a major threat to good governance. Pakistan politics is
moving from one party to another ruling party which enhances inflation.
Another cause of inflation is weak foreign policy it is also Increasing
inflation

The increase in inflation has created malnutrition problems and lowered
the living standards. According to the Global Hunger Index Pakistan
ranked 92nd out of 116 countries which shows a serious level of hunger.
Inflation also creates unemployment. It is a huge problem for employees
taking fixed salaries.

Observing Pakistan's current situation it is mandatory to take strict
measures to control inflation and to manage peace and prosperity in
Pakistan. Domestic production should be encouraged instead of imports,
investment should be given preference in consumer goods instead of
luxuries, foreign investment should be attracted and lastly a strong
monitoring system should be established at different levels.

Load-Date: May 13, 2023

  End of Document

[]

What after taming inflation beast?

MINT

May 24, 2023 Wednesday

Copyright 2023 HT Media Ltd. All Rights Reserved

Length: 637 words

Dateline: New Delhi

Body

New Delhi, May 24 -- The inflation fever is finally breaking. The latest
round of inflation prints from key global economies is a harbinger of
that. After remaining stubbornly elevated through 2022, price pressures
are easing across many developed and emerging economies.

In the US, inflation measured through the consumer price index (CPI)
fell to a two-year low of 4.9% year-on-year (y-o-y) in April. In the
other major developed economies of UK and Eurozone, even as inflation is
still elevated, it has come off from recent peaks.

A similar trend is playing out in key emerging economies. In India,
headline CPI inflation fell to an 18-month low of 4.7% y-o-y in April.
Among economies in the ASEAN group, Indonesia and Philippines saw
inflation dip to multi-month lows in April. ASEAN is short for
Association of Southeast Asian Nations.

What adds to comfort is that this decline in inflation is largely
broad-based, thus aiding hopes that the downward trend could sustain.
And thanks to easing international prices of many heavyweight food items
in the CPI basket, food inflation is also cooling off.

Secondly, a significant fall in global crude oil prices from the levels
seen last year, has come as a breather. This has translated to softening
energy inflation. The upside in the commodity complex including oil
prices may remain capped going ahead amid weakening global growth and
fading demand. In short, the worst for food and fuel inflation could be
behind us.

Finally, the elephant in the room-a relatively sticky core inflation,
which accounts for a much larger share of the CPI basket, particularly
in developed economies. It is worth noting that precise official
definition of core inflation differs across economies and central banks.
But broadly, core inflation is calculated after stripping the volatile
food and energy components and is a reflection of underlying price
pressures in an economy.

There is some good news on this front as well. In the US and India, core
inflation fell meaningfully in April.

In the backdrop of aggressive global interest rate hikes and nascent
softening in economic momentum, moderation in core inflation is hardly
surprising. Further, through most of last year, goods producers have
been raising selling prices, which may be curtailed now amid slowdown in
global growth.

All said, in this long-standing battle, most global central banks seem
to have tamed the inflation beast, to a large extent, with their
monetary policy rate tool. Going by the projections of the International
Monetary Fund (IMF), a meaningful decline in world inflation is in the
offing. World CPI inflation is seen declining from 8.7% y-o-y in 2022 to
7.0% in 2023 and further to 4.9% in 2024. (See chart)

All this put together suggests that the global economy is heading to the
disinflationary zone-a scenario of temporary moderation in inflation.
Also, with disinflation, comes an increased possibility of a
much-awaited pause after a sustained period of global monetary
tightening.

But, looking a little ahead, central banks could be gearing up, yet
again, for a new battle-the one to support growth.

Global economic momentum is feared to weaken this year, under the burden
of aggressive monetary policy tightening.

For instance, the May Eurozone and US flash purchasing managers' index
surveys, published by S&P Global show that business activity in
manufacturing sectors in these regions have started showing signs of
weakness.

While it remains to be seen how deep the global growth slump can get, a
faster recovery may warrant some degree of monetary easing, next year,
particularly if global disinflation sustains.

Published by HT Digital Content Services with permission from MINT. For
any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement,
please contact Editor at contentservices@htlive.com

Load-Date: May 24, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Persisting inflation

The Express Tribune

May 20, 2023 Saturday

Copyright 2023 The Express Tribune All Rights Reserved

Length: 338 words

Body

According to a recent UN report, the specter of inflation continues to
haunt Pakistanis, exacerbating their financial woes and adding to their
everyday struggles. This pressing concern demands urgent attention from
policymakers and concerted efforts to mitigate its impact on the
population. The report highlights the predicament faced by ordinary
Pakistanis, revealing that the cost of basic necessities, such as food,
housing, education and healthcare, continues to spiral upwards.
Inflation erodes savings, squeezes budgets, reduces purchasing power and
forces individuals into difficult choices between meeting their basic
needs or building a better future for themselves and their families.

The persistence of inflation can be attributed to a combination of
factors such as: external debt, imbalance between supply and demand,
inadequate local infrastructure, and a weak agricultural sector that
hampers the country's ability to produce enough food to meet the needs
of its burgeoning population. External factors such as global commodity
prices and exchange rate fluctuations further exacerbate inflationary
pressures. Rising oil prices, for example, has had a cascading effect on
transportation costs and, subsequently, the prices of essential goods
and services. Pakistan's dependency on imports for crucial items
amplifies this vulnerability, making it challenging to control inflation
domestically.

Addressing inflation requires a comprehensive and multi-faceted approach
from the government. Apart from prioritising investments in agriculture,
fiscal discipline is essential. Fiscal reforms should be implemented to
enhance revenue collection, improve administration and reduce wasteful
expenditures. Most importantly, the government should prioritise social
safety nets and targeted subsidies to shield vulnerable populations from
the harshest impacts of inflation. Pakistan finds itself at a critical
juncture. Only prudent measures and careful considerations will pave the
way towards a sustainable and stable future.

Load-Date: May 20, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Correlation between popularity and inflation

The Nation (AsiaNet)

May 24, 2023 Wednesday

Copyright 2023 Nawai Waqt Group of Newspapers All Rights Reserved

Section: Vol. 37; No. 41

Length: 990 words

Body

Does popularity in democracies bear a direct correlation with inflation?
Well, actually it does. Reverse the question in order to argue from the
other end, there can only be two competing hypotheses regarding the
impact of success in democracy on inflation: One, as per the 'populist'
approach where inflation is the result of public demands for transfers
financed by a 'tax' defined as inflation, suggesting that electoral
competition will increase inflation and Two, a 'state-capture' approach
where inflation is a result of pressure from elites who derive private
benefits from money creation, meaning that electoral competition may
constrain inflation. Either way, in both arguments the impact of
democracy is further conditioned by the prevailing level of income
inequality. This fact has now been tested by a study conducted by
Syracuse University, with data from more than 100 countries between 1960
and 1999 using different dynamic panel estimation methods to control for
unobserved effects and the potential endogeneity of some independent
variables. It reveals that the popularity graph of leaders and political
parties in democracies is invariably associated with lower inflation and
especially in countries where inequality is high. Last week Karnataka
voted in a new government.

Going by the election manifestos of the two main political parties, the
BJP (Bharatiya Janata Party) and the Congress, it appears the main issue
engaging voters was inflation. If one looks at the history of winning
combinations in South Asia over the year since 1947, this is not
surprising, given that inflation has significantly accelerated in the
region in the last couple of years, forcing the Reserve Bank of India to
raise interest rates in rapid succession and as a result constraining
growth cum compromising employment opportunities and in-turn stoking
inflation. So, naturally, the just concluded elections in Karnataka,
have thrown thrown up a corresponding trend. The incumbent, BJP suffered
the voters' wrath, and the challenger Congress finally got their
long-awaited victory. In India, inflation has been rampant in the
post-covid phase and though one may argue that in a relatively global or
regional sense the inflation trends in India are considerably more
moderate than elsewhere (Sri Lanka it touched 70 percent and Pakistan 38
percent). This a factor that in many ways is encouraging as well, as it
tells us that contrary to the core belief that BJP and RSS have always
maintained, in reality, it is not the politics of hate (towards Pakistan
in particular and all Indian minorities in general) that drives
electoral success, but the dispensation of economic relief and support
to the common, which actually determines popularity amongst voters.

What we have also witnessed in India from this outcome is the fallout of
a structural makeover in the provision of basic material needs of the
populace where the essentials have a far greater horizontal scale from
what they were let's say at the turn of the century; things that didn't
carry much value than now find themselves added to the platform. For
example, there was a time when access to cooking gas or mobile network
was considered a privilege and a badge of entry into the middle class.
What the results in India also or additionally tell us is that
traditionally, staple food items like potatoes and onions, have been the
trigger for public angst, however, this time, the outcome suggests that
the touchstone of inflation may have changed, by also taking into
account rising costs of household fuels like natural gas, gas cylinders,
kerosene oil, wood, etc and a two-fold increase in mobile talk-time!
Shift the focus to home and the trends in Pakistan tell the same story.

Inflation has been rampant and employment opportunities scarce due to
the unprecedently high-interest rate imposed by the State Bank of
Pakistan and the businesses are collapsing, as the government with a
rather myopic vision moves to such the capital out of the markets. In
essence, whosoever the public thinks is responsible for their economic
woes, becomes unpopular. Not long ago when Imran Khan and the PTI were
in power, their popularity graph plummeted because people held them
responsible for their misery, however, soon after they were removed and
the inflation kept rocketing un-checked, the focus shifted on PDM,
making them perhaps the most unpopular government in a long time and
ironically instead raising Khan's and PTI's popularity to an
unprecedented level.

Sadly, it also goes on to show how frustrated people are today and would
quickly clutch at any straw, no matter how weak, in the hope of quick
relief. Interestingly, this correlation has always been there, whereas,
leaders like fools have had this exaggerated notion about themselves
that somehow their charisma makes people tick in their favour rather
than a pure economic dispensation. For students of Pakistan's economic
history, it would be pertinent to note that every time a government
changed and people welcomed the new one with applause, the inflation
figures were either in the punishing double digits or at times even
higher: Ayub Khan was welcomed in 1958, as inflation had touched 13
percent; Zulfiqar Ali Bhutto was welcomed in the role of Prime Minister
from President in 1973, as inflation had touched 38 percent (highest
ever); Zia-ul-Haq was welcomed in 1977, as inflation still stood in high
double digits at 18 percent; Nawaz Sharif in 1990, when inflation was
almost 12 percent; Musharraf in 1999 came on the back of 13 percent
inflation; PPP in 2008 on the back of around 24 percent inflation; Nawaz
Sharif was welcomed in 2013 when inflation was at around 12 percent and
PTI in 2018 with inflation at 13 percent. One can only hope and pray
that the prayers of Pakistanis are answered sometime soon with a
government that concentrates on addressing inflation and growth instead
of playing mere politics!

Load-Date: May 24, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Inflation seen further easing

The Philippine Star

May 22, 2023 Monday

Copyright 2023 PhilSTAR Daily, Inc. All Rights Reserved

Length: 703 words

Body

Private economists lowered their inflation forecasts for this year, as
prices cooled due to the aggressive rate hikes delivered by monetary
authorities, according to the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas (BSP).

Dennis Lapid, officer-in-charge of the BSP's Department of Economic
Research (DER), said the results of the latest survey of private
economists showed a lower mean inflation forecast of 5.8 percent for
this year from six percent in the previous month's survey round.

Lapid said the mean inflation forecast of private economists was higher
than the latest assessment of 5.5 percent by the BSP.

'For 2023, analysts expect inflation to settle above the upper end of
the government's target range for the year owing mainly to supply
shocks. Risks to the inflation outlook remain tilted to the upside due
to elevated prices of goods and services brought about by supply chain
disruptions,' Lapid said.

He said upside risks to inflation are seen to emanate mainly from high
prices of services, such as restaurant and accommodation services, as
well as goods including food and oil due mainly to supply-related
concerns.

'These supply-side disruptions, in turn, are attributed to weather
disturbances given the impending El Niño phenomenon, geopolitical
tensions such as the ongoing Russia-Ukraine war, and international trade
restrictions,' he said.

He pointed out that some economists also cited the continued recovery of
private consumption given improved labor market conditions, along with
second round effects, particularly higher transport fares and utility
rates, as well as potential upside to inflation.

On the other hand, Lapid said downside risks to inflation identified by
a few economists could come from increased uncertainty on the recovery
of the global economy, including risks of recession in the US and
slowdown in China; higher short-term interest rates owing to the BSP's
policy rate increases; and gradual normalization of global supply
chains, which could mitigate imported inflation.

He said other downside risks are negative base effects; declining oil
prices that could lead to lower transport cost; lower coal prices to
pull down electricity costs, and improved food supply level.

The highest inflation forecast came from eManagement for Business and
Marketing Services at 6.6 percent, followed by Mizuho at 6.4 percent;
EastWest Bank and Bangkok Bank at 6.1 percent; Metrobank, UBS, Deutsche
Bank, Modular Asset Management and Al-Amanah Islamic Bank at six
percent, and ANZ at 5.9 percent.

Headline inflation averaged 7.9 percent in the first four months of the
year - still above the BSP's two to four percent target range, despite
easing for the third straight month to an eight-month low of 6.6 percent
in April from 7.6 percent in March.

Based on the probability distribution of the forecasts provided by 19
out of the 24 respondents in the survey, Lapid said there is near
certainty or 99.2-percent probability that inflation would exceed four
percent this year, while there is a slim 0.8 percent chance that average
inflation for 2023 would settle within the two to four percent target
range.

For 2024 and 2025, Lapid said inflation forecasts were unchanged at 3.6
percent and 3.5 percent, respectively.

Lapid added that the probability that inflation would settle within the
two to four percent target range is higher at 75.5 percent for 2024 and
70.6 percent for 2025.

To tame inflation and stabilize the peso, the BSP embarked on a
year-long tightening cycle that saw key policy rates rise by a
cumulative 425 basis points since May last year.

After a prudent pause last Thursday, the benchmark interest rate stood
at a 16-year high of 6.25 percent from an all-time low of two percent.

Lapid said majority of the economists believe that the BSP would take a
pause from its tightening cycle in the second and third quarters of this
year.

However, he said most respondents of the survey anticipate a policy
reversal in the fourth quarter with a rate cut ranging between 25 and
125 basis points for this year and an additional reduction of 50 to 150
basis points for 2024.

For 2025, Lapid said economists have penciled another round of
tightening cycle with rate hikes ranging from 25 to 100 basis points.

Load-Date: May 23, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Regaining control - Inflation edition

CE Noticias Financieras English

May 22, 2023 Monday

Copyright 2023 Content Engine, LLC.

All Rights Reserved

Copyright 2023 CE Noticias Financieras All Rights Reserved

Length: 928 words

Body

The politics of inflation bears a striking resemblance to the politics
of Brexit. Brexit divided the UK into two camps, the metropolitan south
and the industrial north. Inflation opens similar gaps. Of course, it
affects the poor more than the rich. What is new is that rising
inflation carries the risk of political misjudgments similar to those
that led to Brexit.

I know many economists, especially on the left, who have little
appreciation for the goal of price stability, and who would like central
banks to focus on growth and employment. They see this obsession with
stable prices as bourgeois. Their mindset dates back to the 20th
century, when Keynesian economic policies were associated with policies
favoring the working classes. At that time, the main trade-off in
economic policy was between inflation and unemployment. Workers suffered
from unemployment, but much less from inflation. In the 1970s, unions
managed to negotiate wage settlements above inflation. The rich, on the
other hand, were more affected by inflation than by unemployment. At
that time, the right hated inflation and the left hated policies to
combat it.

Today, the picture is the opposite. The poor and low-income earners are
the most interested in stable prices, because the decline of union power
has meant that they have no one to look after their interests except the
central bank.

In contrast, middle and high incomes now have more means than before to
protect themselves from inflation. They no longer keep their wealth in
cash or bank deposits, but in property or shares. The biggest risk they
face is the high interest rates needed to reduce inflation.

Between one period and another, there was a brief hiatus - from about
1990 to 2020 - during which a consensus emerged that low inflation would
benefit everyone. The reasoning went like this: since we all agree on
the target, we might as well leave the details to the experts. It was
the golden age of macroeconomics and central bank independence.

That era is coming to an end because central banks have not honored the
deal. They remain independent, but what is changing is the broad
consensus on which their independence is based. Monetary policy is
becoming political again. It started in the wake of the global financial
crisis, when central banks adopted quantitative easing, the purchase of
government bonds. During the pandemic, they financed fiscal stimulus. It
was the time when central banks discovered the art of the possible. In
the process, they made the owners of financial assets richer.

Now they are accused of making the poor poorer by allowing inflation to
rise. They are not to blame for the supply chain shortages during the
pandemic, nor for Vladimir Putin's war. Price crises happen. Their
mistake was to underestimate the collateral effects and not take action.

They raised interest rates late, badly and in drag, and continue to fuel
expectations that the worst will soon pass. Interest rates remain below
core inflation levels in the Eurozone and the UK. This seems to indicate
that central banks are betting that inflation will come down on its own.
Their fast and furious reaction to the global financial crisis contrasts
with their relative complacency about current inflation.

In my view, the most threatened is the UK, a medium-sized country with a
large financial sector. Sometimes it seems that Andrew Bailey, the
governor of the Bank of England, gives priority to financial stability
and only pays lip service to inflation targeting. Even in good times,
central banks face a choice between low inflation or financial
stability. This phenomenon is known as financial dominance. It is what
prevents them today from raising interest rates to 6% or as high as it
takes to bring inflation back to 2%. Raising rates that high could cause
the housing market to crash and trigger a financial crisis. Or maybe
worse. It would become a nightmare for the middle class.

Compare this situation to the late 1970s. When Margaret Thatcher came to
power in 1979, her government raised interest rates to 17% in November
of that year. It was the British middle class that voted her into power.
Today, it is the middle class, their representatives and the media who
are demanding that the Bank of England should tread carefully.

Some economists even want central banks to raise the inflation target.
They argue that lowering inflation to 2% would cause too much suffering.
In other words, they want to change the rules of the game. And they try
to dress it up as a technical necessity, rather than what it really is:
a political choice.

The repoliticization of monetary policy takes us back to Brexit. EU
membership, the single market and financial integration in Europe
benefited some more than others. The metropolitan political bubble
failed to see this. A version of this is happening again, this time in
another arena. The activist politics of the left no longer works for the
left electorate.

So we should not be surprised to see new political parties or groupings
within parties emerge with a program to wrest control from the central
banks. We have seen a timid first step in that direction in Australia,
where the government decided to clip the wings of the central bank
governor for failing to address inflation in time. The Australian
central bank remains independent, but this episode should serve as a
warning to central bank governors elsewhere in the world that their
status is not secure. Coming soon to your nearest central bank.

Wolfgang Münchau is a director of www.intelligence.com.

Translated by News Clips.

Load-Date: May 23, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Shifting the inflation goalposts

Oman Daily Observer

May 21, 2023 Sunday

Copyright 2023 Oman Daily Observer All Rights Reserved

Length: 940 words

Body

As the most aggressive wave of monetary tightening in four decades slows
the world's largest economies, a growing number of analysts are
questioning whether central banksshould raise theirinflation targets
beyond the current 2%

After all,isitworthsacrificing growth just to gain an extra inch in the
fight against inflation? ButasBrazil'srecenteconomic difficulties
demonstrate, the tradeoff between supporting GDP growth and fighting
inflation cannot be wished away. Ultimately, accepting slightly higher
price levels by raising central-bank targets will most likely result in
both higher inflation and a weaker economy

Amid pressing security and climate-related challenges, policymakers may
be tempted to move the goalposts when it comes to price stability. For
most of the past 15 years, developed economies struggled to generate
inflation, with the US Federal Reserve and other central banks often
falling short of their 2% target rates. But the Covid-19 pandemic, the
escalating tensions between the United States and China, and Russia's
attack of Ukraine have led to persistent supply-chain constraints,
fundamentally altering the inflation landscape. Similarly, the evolving
nature of globalisation and the cleanenergy transition are prompting
companies to rethink how they manage the supply of goods and labour.
This shift, together with the unanticipated shocks that could accompany
it, is likely to have inflationary effects. But in light of the threat
posed by climate change and heightened geopolitical tensions, one could
argue that tolerating modestly higher inflation is the cost of achieving
a just green transition

The growing recognition that the current confluence of shocks requires
significant changes in how our economies function represents a healthy
development

The ongoing debate about inflation and growth, however, often fails to
appreciate the fickleness of business and consumer confidence. Brazil
underscores the dangers of trying to adjust the anchors of price
stability, even by a small margin. Shortly after President Luiz Inácio
Lula da Silva publicly suggested that Brazil's inflation target was too
low and that elevated interest rates were stifling the economy, the
central bank's inflation expectations rose to 5.8% for 2023 and 3.6% for
2024

The central bank, which gained formal operational independence only in
2021, has gradually lowered its target rate from 4.5% in 2018 to 3.25%
for this year and 3% for 2024

In response to the updated inflation expectations, markets promptly
adjusted their own earlier expectations of a rapid, aggressive
rate-cutting cycle and priced in a slower, more gradual downward
trajectory

At the longer end of the government debt yield curve, the risk premium
that investors demanded to hold long-term Brazilian debt also sharply
increased. Real interest rates surpassed the 6% level that prevailed
prior to October's presidential election - and which were already
perceived as exorbitant and unsustainable. Given Brazil's well-known
history of hyperinflation and extreme inequality, achieving price
stability is particularly urgent. But the ever-present threat that the
country's distorted fiscal regime of high taxes and spending poses to
debt sustainability is often overlooked

In the wake of the pandemic, government debt levels reached a 20-year
high, leading to a significant increase in the cost of funding Brazil's
deficits even as growth rebounded. While developed economies are not
Brazil, rich-country policymakers must not assume that it would be any
easier for them to persuade their citizens that higher inflation targets
could be achieved at little additional cost. Brazil's experience offers
three valuable lessons for determining whether central banks in
developed countries should set higher inflation targets. First,
inflation targeting is essentially a confidence trick. If governments
are perceived to be raising inflation targets to support higher levels
of spending - regardless of whether this spending is needed or not -
borrowing costs will inevitably increase for everyone

In this scenario, re-anchoring inflation expectations at a higherlevel
will almost certainly lead to a recession, which may be necessary to
reduce inflation below the new target and keep it at that level long
enough for expectations to stabilise. Second, changing inflation targets
without implementing fiscal consolidation would be imprudent. If the
reason for resetting the target is to accommodate fiscal spending, it is
unlikely that the public would believe that the reset is permanent.
Concern about fiscal sustainability has always been at the core of
Brazil's inflation problems. Moreover, adopting a Brazilstyle regime of
tight money and loose fiscal policy would limit private-sector
investment opportunities and hamper job growth

It could also lead to a significant increase in interestrate volatility.
Third, the limitations of inflation targeting are particularly evident
in times of greater supply-side uncertainty, as monetary policymakers
have no advantage in determining whether a given supply shock is
transitory or persistent

In a low-inflation environment, policymakers could afford to wait to see
whether a supply shock (of which there were few in recent decades) would
naturally dissipate. But in aworld where inflation is already exceeding
targets, and the risk of compounding shocks is high, policymakers do not
have the luxury of time. Thanks to their prior experience in dealing
with persistent supply shocks, Brazilian policymakers had a better sense
of the threat posed by today's supply-chain disruptions than most
central banks in developed economies.

Load-Date: May 21, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Inflation eases to 11-month low

Mail & Guardian

May 24, 2023 Wednesday

Copyright 2023 M and G Media (Pty) Ltd. All Rights Reserved

[]

Length: 430 words

Byline: Sarah Smit

Highlight: The rand strengthened ahead of Wednesday's inflation data,
but it still held above R19 against the dollar

Body

Inflation has eased to an 11-month low, having slowed to 6.8%
year-on-year in April - down from 7.1%.

Economists forecast that consumer price inflation would come in slightly
higher, with the consensus expectation coming in at 7%. But data from
Statistics South Africa showed that inflation hit its lowest level since
May last year, when the rate was 6.5%.

According to the data, annual food inflation - which hit a 14-year high
in March - eased slightly to 13.9%, down from 14%. Moreover, transport
recorded its ninth successive month of disinflation in April, softening
to 7.6%, StatsSA noted. This was mainly because the annual rate for fuel
easing fell to 5%, the lowest reading since March 2021.

Despite having eased, the headline inflation rate is still well above
the ceiling of South African Reserve Bank's 3% to 6% target range.
According to the South African Reserve Bank's monetary policy review,
headline inflation is forecast to return to the target range in the
third quarter of 2023, but to the midpoint of the target range only in
2025.

The inflation data comes ahead of the Reserve Bank's repo rate decision
on Thursday. In the wake of the rand's recent tumble, economists have
flagged the increased likelihood of the Reserve Bank hiking the repo
rate by another 50 basis points. 

The rand strengthened ahead of Wednesday's inflation data, but it still
held above R19 against the dollar.

Before the recent bout of currency weakness, the Bureau for Economic
Research (BER) said it had expected a 25 basis point hike, signalling
the end of the tightening cycle. Even if the Reserve Bank hikes by 50
basis points on Thursday, "it is now less clear whether that will bring
the hikes to an end", the BER said.

Investec chief economist Annabel Bishop said despite a 25 or 50 basis
point hike expected this week, an even more aggressive 75 basis point
rise is needed to strengthen the rand meaningfully.

Bishop said, interest rates are expected to fall next year, if not by
the fourth quarter of 2023. Inflation is forecast to come in lower in
the second half of this year compared with the first half and to fall
during the course of 2024.  

David Rees, senior emerging markets economist at Schroders, said there
are three main reasons to believe inflation and interest rates will
start to ease. First, fuel inflation has already begun to drop sharply
and should fall a bit further before stabilising, he said. Second, the
food price inflation may well have peaked. Third, higher interest rates
stand to cool economic growth, thus bringing down core inflation.

Subscribe to the M&G

Load-Date: May 24, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Inflation What experts expect to happen next

i-Independent Print Ltd

May 25, 2023

First Edition

Copyright 2023 Associated Newspapers Ltd. All Rights Reserved

[]

Section: NEWS; Pg. 4

Length: 543 words

Byline: Serina Sandhu

Body

Inflation is expected to hover around 8 per cent next month, leading
economists have predicted.

The Bank of England expects Consumer Prices Index (CPI) inflation to
drop to roughly 5 per cent by the end of 2023 from 10.1 per cent in
March - a revised prediction after initially saying inflation would fall
to 3.9 per cent. The Bank predicts that it will reach the 2 per cent
target by the end of 2024.

But it has dropped less quickly than had been expected - and hoped - and
while a decline in inflation is still forecast, it is now thought likely
to take much longer to drop.

The rate inflation to hover next

Susannah Streeter, the head of money and markets at the financial
services firm Hargreaves Lansdown, believes that inflation will continue
to dip as energy prices fall, but slowly.

She said: "The falls keep disappointing despite a big chunk of the
energy price hikes from last year dropping out of the figures.

"So, given how stubborn food prices are, at this rate I wouldn't expect
it to fall much below 8 per cent next month."

Ms Streeter said that the Bank of England had admitted "that the price
spiral may prove harder to come down than it previously expected, citing
upward risks to forecasts, and that's why the road still seems wide open
for at least another [interest rate] hike".

Professor Costas Milas, from the Management School at the University of
Liverpool, said inflation would drop again when May's figure was
published but resisted putting a number on it.

at which expected around month, to "Today's inflation reading of 8.7 per
cent will most likely be disappointing news for the Bank of England's
Monetary Policy Committee (MPC). Inflation is dropping but slowly
compared with the MPC's forecasts," he added. "This undermines, in
everyone's eyes, their credibility to bring inflation back to the 2 per
cent target."

Paula Bejarano Carbo, an associate economist at the National Institute
of Economic and Social Research, said the group expected headline CPI
inflation to reach only 6.5 per cent by the end of the year, with
inflation taking until late 2025 to reach the Bank of England's target
of 2 per cent.

"CPI inflation in April was higher than we [and others] were expecting
and suggests, worryingly, that high inflation may have become embedded,"
she said.

"In particular, core inflation [which excludes food and energy] is now
at 6.8 per cent."

High core inflation was also a concern for Paul Johnson, the director of
the Institute for Fiscal Studies, who said that the Bank of England had
underestimated it.

He added: "I'm sure we are on a gradual glide path down [in terms of
inflation] now but it doesn't any longer look like we're going get below
5 per cent by the end of the year.

But exactly how fast that glide path is going be and how close to 5 [per
cent] we will end up, I'm not sure."

Reaching 2 per cent next year is also becoming less likely, Mr Johnson
said., adding: "I think it's really worrying [for households] because
obviously, the initial impact is on living standards.

"I think the bigger worry is that if inflation is becoming embedded,
then that's going to mean interest rates are going to be higher for
longer."

Serina Sandhu

8% The rate at which inflation is expected to hover around next month,
according to economists

Load-Date: May 24, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Inflation convergence to target

CE Noticias Financieras English

May 17, 2023 Wednesday

Copyright 2023 Content Engine, LLC.

All Rights Reserved

Copyright 2023 CE Noticias Financieras All Rights Reserved

Length: 747 words

Body

In memory of my thesis advisor, Robert E. Lucas, Jr.

In its publications, the Bank of Mexico (Banxico) has reiterated its
commitment to bring annual inflation to the 3.0 percent target. To
achieve this goal, the central bank faces considerable challenges.

First, current inflation is very high, which requires a notable
reduction in the pace of price growth. In April 2023, as measured by the
CPI, annual headline inflation was 6.3 percent, and core inflation,
which excludes the most volatile prices, stood at 7.7 percent.

Both indicators are more than double Banxico's target. Moreover, the gap
of core inflation above headline inflation reveals higher medium-term
inflationary pressures than those captured by the latter.

Second, the recent decline in headline inflation has occurred mainly
because of the benign behavior of non-core inflation, especially due to
the fall in energy prices, which is unrelated to the influence of
monetary policy.

One way to evaluate the progress in disinflation is to compare annual
inflation in April 2023 with that of April 2022. This comparison has the
advantage of contrasting the increase in the price level of twelve
months, with no months in common.

Compared to April 2022, in April 2023 annual inflation decreased 1.4
percentage points, because non-core inflation decreased 7 points. In the
same period, core inflation increased by half a percentage point,
despite the monetary tightening applied by Banxico since June 2021.

Third, an abatement of inflation would require more effective monetary
measures than those of the past. It should be noted that since 2017, the
Mexican economy seems to have entered a higher inflation regime than in
previous years, with average inflation above 5.0 percent. There is a
risk that, if monetary policy fails to durably reduce inflation, the
public's inflationary expectations will be anchored above that level.

To understand the nature of Banxico's commitment to the convergence of
inflation to the target, it would be useful for the Board of Governors
(BoG) to clearly define the notion of convergence. This clarification is
not semantic, but substantive. Specifically, the BoG should communicate
the minimum characteristics it would expect to verify in order to
declare that inflation has indeed converged to the target, including
aspects such as the duration and sustainability of convergence.

For example, inflation could temporarily touch 3.0 percent, supported by
a necessarily short-lived drop in non-core inflation. Or, inflation
could become entrenched near this target, if core inflation were low
enough to offset non-core inflation, whose historical levels have tended
to be higher.

The implications of these two types of convergence for monetary policy
are diametrically different. While the former could invite complacency
and detour to other targets, the latter would confirm the effectiveness
of monetary policy in achieving the target.

A case of the first type occurred in the last two months of 2020, when
inflation approached 3.0 percent, mainly due to a decline in non-core
inflation. According to the minutes, at the November monetary meeting
that year, a member of the BoG noted the need to move "from the current
modestly expansionary to a highly accommodative monetary stance and that
we further signal that it will remain so for an extended period of
time." The inflationary acceleration of 2021 materialized the risk of
declaring a premature victory.

Banxico has insisted that the 3.0 percent inflation target is permanent,
so presumably the applicable notion of convergence is the long-run one.
A practical challenge facing this central bank is the difficulty of
identifying downward inflation trajectories that reliably point to
lasting convergence.

Unlike in advanced economies, such as the United States, where inflation
has been on target for many years, convergence periods in Mexico have
generally been short and scarce. Hence, it is more difficult than in
other countries to see, based on experience, that a decline in inflation
points to a permanent convergence of inflation to the target.

To strengthen communication and thus the effectiveness of monetary
policy, it would be useful for the BoG to detail the desired nature of
inflation convergence, as well as the minimum conditions for confidence
that inflation is on a sustainable path toward the permanent 3.0 percent
target.

Former Deputy Governor of Banco de México and author of Economía
Mexicana para Desencantados (FCE 2006).

Load-Date: May 18, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Taming inflation

The Nation (Nigeria)

May 22, 2023 Monday

Copyright 2023 The Nation All Rights Reserved

Length: 761 words

Body

With inflation rate rising for a fourth straight month in April, there
can be no prize for guessing the direction of interest rates as the
Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) meets Tuesday, this week: another MPC
rate hike - the seventh straight one - seems imminent.

Here's how the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) in its report
released on Monday captured the situation: '...the headline inflation
rate rose to 22.22 percent relative to March 2023 headline inflation
rate which was 22.04 percent'... an increase of 0.18 percent points.

For food inflation, it was 24.5 percent in March; April was 24.6%.
Summary: headline inflation rate, on a year-on-year basis, is 5.40
percent points higher (April 2022 rate was 16.82 percent).

President open letter

However, whereas the trend is one of sustained price increases across
the board with key contributors said to be the prices of oil and fats,
gas and air transport, that the latest rate is actually the highest
level since September 2005 must be deemed as not only concerning, but
call to question, government's understanding of the roots of the menace
and, by extension, the appropriateness of the tools being deployed to
fight it.

No doubt, the rest of the world could look in the direction of the
on-going war between Russia and Ukraine and their spiral effects on the
global economic scene as a major factor in the current crisis. Yet, much
as no country in the world is spared of the biting effects of the war,
particularly coming closely in the aftermath of the COVID-19 pandemic,
in Nigeria's case, the problems are of a different kind. Most of the
problems, we daresay, are not only structural, they predated the latest
cycle of global economic crisis. In fact, they mirror the endemic
failure of governance on the one hand, and the fixations with policies,
most of which have little relevance with current challenges or realities
on the other.

The consequence has been faulty diagnoses, hence solutions that are best
ineffectual.

Clearly, it requires no rocket science to appreciate why the current
situation persists. Even with the modest efforts of the current
administration, the infrastructural situation remains parlous. The port
system remains shambolic several years after the much touted reforms.
The road and the railways infrastructure are no different; they are
still light years away from what a modern economy requires to run.
Electricity supply has remained as it was a decade ago - unreliable. For
a leading oil producer, we export our crude and use a part of the
proceeds to import refined fuel. Unable to crack the riddle of domestic
refining, the country is caught in the web of importation hence the
premium it has to pay to deliver fuel to the pumps.

While all of the above together have made Nigeria's economy a high-cost
one, they are at the heart of the inflation problem and so now
particularly deserving of the utmost attention of the incoming
government.

The same of course applies to the food situation. Despite the best
efforts of the Central Bank of Nigeria to boost output through improved
financing, the supply situation has been severely hampered by the
spectre of insecurity across the country. Even the closure of the
borders, which the government announced would help boost domestic food
production while stemming the tide of smuggling, has merely exacerbated
the supply gap, thus compounding the inflationary spiral.

The supreme irony is that the CBN, whose unbridled monetary
interventions and irresponsible accommodation of the Federal
Government's reckless spending actually contributed to the crisis,
continues to be fixated with a policy that sees monetary tightening as
something of a magic.

Of course, the country needs a new approach to tame the inflation
monster. Boosting food output to significantly bring down food inflation
must be seen as top priority. A good way to begin is to tackle the
intractable security challenge facing the country headlong. Related to
this is more investment in mechanised agriculture.

In fact, we would urge the in-coming government to pay greater attention
to those already identified critical infrastructure without which the
nation's quest for enhanced productivity and self-reliance would remain
a pipe dream. Monetary policy tools are certainly important; but then,
only to the extent that they serve as complement to other governance
tools. What we saw in recent past of an unelected CBN virtually running
ring around an elected government should be regarded as an aberration.
It is something the in-coming administration should avoid.

Load-Date: May 23, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Economists lower 2023 inflation forecast

BusinessWorld

May 22, 2023 Monday

Copyright 2023 BusinessWorld Publishing Corporation All Rights Reserved

Section: Pg. S1/1

Length: 812 words

Byline: Keisha B. Ta-asan [SE] Page One

Body

PRIVATE sector economists lowered their inflation outlook for this year,
with most expecting the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas (BSP) to begin
trimming policy rates by the fourth quarter of this year.

Based on the results of the BSP’s survey of private economists in May,
analysts now see average inflation for 2023 settling at 5.8%, versus 6%
in the April survey. This is slightly higher than the BSP’s revised 5.5%
full- year forecast.

The economists’ mean inflation forecasts for 2024 and 2025 were kept at
3.6% and 3.5%, respectively.

According to the BSP, analysts expect inflation to breach the 2-4%
target range due to the impact of supply shocks.

“Risks to the inflation outlook remain tilted to the upside due to
elevated prices of goods and services brought on by supply chain
disruptions,” the BSP said in its latest Monetary Policy Report.

Headline inflation slowed for a third straight month in April, easing to
6.6% from 7.6% in March. For the first four months of the year,
inflation averaged 7.9%, higher than the 3.7% seen a year ago.

The BSP said these supply-side disruptions may be driven by weather
disturbances such as the El Niño phenomenon as well as geopolitical
tensions like the Russia-Ukraine war and global trade restrictions.

“A few analysts also cited the continued recovery of private consumption
given improved labor market conditions, as well as second-round effects,
particularly higher transport fares and utility rates as potential
upside risks to inflation,” it added.

The Philippine economy expanded by 6.4% in the first quarter, slower
than the 8% expansion during the same period a year ago. Household
consumption, which contributes around three-fourths to gross domestic
product (GDP), grew by 6.3% in the January-to-March period, slower than
the 10% a year ago.

The BSP said risks to the inflation outlook remain skewed to the upside
through 2024, “warranting continued readiness to resume monetary action
if necessary.”

Meanwhile, analysts cited the looming US recession, slowdown in China,
normalization of global supply chains, and the impact of the BSP’s
policy rate increases as downside risks to inflation.

The BSP has raised borrowing costs by a total of 425 basis points (bps)
since May last year, bringing the key rate to 6.25%, the highest in
nearly 16 years.

On Thursday, the BSP decided to keep rates unchanged, and signaled it
will likely remain unchanged until the third quarter.

Based on the probability distribution of the forecasts provided by 19
out of 26 analysts, the BSP said there is a “near certainty” or a 99.2%
chance that inflation will exceed the 2-4% target range.

There is only a slim or 0.8% probability (from 0.7% previously) that
average inflation will settle within the target band.

For next year, the probability that inflation will fall within the
target band rose to 75.5% (from 68.8%).

For 2025, there is a 70.6% chance (from 67.5%) that inflation will
settle well within the 2-4% target, the BSP said.

CUTS

Meanwhile, analysts expect the BSP to start trimming rates by 25-125 bps
in the fourth quarter, by up to 250 bps in 2024 and by 100 bps in 2025.

There were 26 respondents in the BSP’s survey of private sector
economists this month. The survey was conducted from May 5 to May 11.

The BSP measures inflation expectations by analyzing the inflation
forecasts of households, business managers, and private sector
economists, as well as the reasons they cite to support their individual
forecasts.

Pantheon Macroeconomics Chief Emerging Asia Economist Miguel Chanco said
the BSP may cut policy rates by 50 bps in the fourth quarter this year,
given no further inflation shocks.

“We don’t think this will be a barrier, as we see the first Fed cut in
September, in view of weakening growth, a durable downshift in core
inflation, and moderating wage growth,” Mr. Chanco said.

BSP Governor Felipe M. Medalla earlier said it is dangerous to cut
policy rates faster than the US Federal Reserve this year as it could
cause the peso to depreciate against the dollar.

Meanwhile, ANZ Research economist Debalika Sarkar said the central bank
may keep the key interest rate at 6.25% for the rest of the year.

“On our part, we believe that an improving FX (foreign exchange)
outlook, as supported by robust international reserves and weakening
import demand, as well as broadening growth challenges and softening
inflation to have opened the door for the BSP to remain on hold for the
remainder of 2023,” she said.

In the BSP’s Monetary Policy Report, the central bank sees the country’s
gross domestic product (GDP) to settle within the government’s 6- 7%
growth target for this year.

However, the Philippine economy “is projected to settle below the 6.5-
8% target for 2024,” the BSP said. This reflects weaker global growth
prospects, as well as the impact of the total 75-bp rate increase of the
BSP in the first quarter this year.

Load-Date: May 22, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Rocketing food prices slow UK inflation fall

The Western Mail

May 25, 2023 Thursday

Edition 1, National Edition

Copyright 2023 Reach PLC All Rights Reserved

[]

Section: NEWS; TEASERS; Pg. 11

Length: 517 words

Byline: PRESS ASSOCIATION REPORTERS

Body

SOARING food prices have seen UK inflation ease back far less than
expected in April, keeping up the pressure on households and raising the
spectre of yet more interest rate rises.

The Office for National Statistics (ONS) said Consumer Prices Index
(CPI) inflation fell to its lowest level for more than a year last
month, at 8.7%, down from 10.1% in March, as energy prices stabilised
after skyhigh rises a year ago. But it was higher than forecast by
economists, who had pencilled in a drop to 8.2% in April, and more than
the Bank of England had predicted just two weeks ago.

The figures showed food inflation at 19.3%, down only slightly on
March's eye-watering 19.6% and remaining close to the highest rate for
more than 45 years.

Chancellor Jeremy Hunt admitted food prices are "still rising too fast".
He said: "Today's fall in inflation... shows we're on the right track,
but there is no room for complacency. It's tough right now, but things
will get better."

Economists said another rise in interest rates was looking increasing
likely after inflation had not fallen as fast as hoped. London's FTSE
100 Index slumped by 1.6% in midmorning trading yesterday as the
inflation surprise led to bets of more rate rises, compounding global
market fears over a United States debt deal.

Rates are at 4.5% because the Bank of England has voted for 12
successive hikes in a row to try and curb the cost crisis and financial
markets are pricing in rates to hit nearly 5.5% after the latest
inflation shock.

Samuel Tombs, at Pantheon Macroeconomics, said April's inflation
decrease was "too small a drop for the Monetary Policy Committee (MPC)
to stop hiking in June".

Martin Beck, chief economic adviser to the EY Item Club, said: "Today's
inflation data raises the chances of a further rate rise at the MPC's
meeting next month. However, with the MPC set to see another round of
labour market and inflation data released before the June meeting,
today's data doesn't mean a further rate increase next month is a
certainty."

The steep fall in CPI, to its lowest level since last March, reflects
last year's initial sky-high rises in power bills dropping out of the
calculation.

Last April, the energy price cap leapt up by 54% to £1,971 after
Russia's invasion of Ukraine sent wholesale gas and electricity prices
rocketing, but this year the Energy Price Guarantee (EPG) has been kept
at £2,500 since last October. Ofgem is set to confirm today that energy
prices will fall sharply for households in July, when the current EPG
comes to an end.

Consultancy firm Cornwall Insight predicts the price cap will fall by
£446 to £2,054 a year, based on falling wholesale energy prices. But
inflation has been stubbornly higher than predicted, raising doubts over
the Government's ability to meet its target to halve inflation by the
year end.

The Bank of England's top bosses admitted to MPs on Tuesday it made
errors in its forecasting of UK inflation, but governor Andrew Bailey
insisted inflation has "turned the corner". He said there is still a
chance the Government will meet its pledge to halve inflation this year.

Load-Date: May 25, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Do not use money meant to fight inflation in the long term to mitigate
inflation now

The Business Times Singapore

May 23, 2023 Tuesday

Copyright 2023 SPH Media Holdings Pte. Ltd. All Rights Reserved

Section: WEALTH

Length: 1082 words

Byline: , Do not use money meant to fight inflation in the long term to
mitigate inflation now

Body

BONDS are not typically the best asset class if there is unexpected
inflation, but one type of bonds which investors use to keep pace with
the inflation rate is the Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities
(Tips).

Tips are a type of US Treasury security, but unlike traditional
Treasuries where their principal or par value remains fixed, the
principal value of Tips is pegged to the rate of inflation. When
inflation rises, Tips principal value is adjusted up. If there is
deflation, then the principal value is adjusted lower.

Thus, they will always give investors the same percentage return
adjusted for inflation over the life of the bond. And like traditional
Treasuries, Tips are backed by the US government.

While there are many measures of inflation, Tips are referenced to the
US Consumer Price Index (CPI). Let me use an example to illustrate how a
Tips of US$100 par value works.

In column A of the table, the par value (which is the price a bond is
first issued at) of the Tips is US$100 with a 2 per cent coupon rate. If
inflation rises by 5 per cent one year later (column B), the Tips
principal value adjusts upwards by 5 per cent to US$105, while the
coupon rate remains unchanged.

If the 5 per cent inflation persists, the Tips mature in 2033, and the
investors will receive US$162.89 (column C). It is also possible that
the principal value is adjusted downwards in a deflationary environment.
However, at maturity, the investors will receive either the par value or
the adjusted principal value of the Tips, whichever is higher.

Like all bonds, the par value (and in the case of Tips, the adjusted
principal value) is not the market price. The adjusted principal value
of the Tips is adjusted only when inflation or deflation happens and is
announced.

But on a daily basis, one of the factors that affect Tips prices is the
investor's expectation of inflation rate. So, the difference between the
10-year Treasury yield and the 10-year Tips yield is the market
expectation of future inflation, which is the breakeven rate.

Let us say that the 10-year Treasury yield is 1.5 per cent but the
10-year Tips yield is negative 1.3 per cent (Tips yield can become
negative when strong demand causes the price of Tips to skyrocket). This
means investors expect the average inflation rate over the next 10 years
to be 2.8 per cent per annum. If this is not the case, then Tips will
provide a lower return than the Treasury.

The implication for portfolio management is this -- if you use Tips as
part of your asset allocation to tactically mitigate unexpected
inflation, you have to include it before there is an expectation of
rising inflation rate. Otherwise, you will be too late to the game.

Tips are often strategically used to mitigate inflation for a specific
period of time for a certain amount of capital, but as in all hedges,
there is a cost to "buying this insurance" instead of just holding
traditional Treasuries.

If there is lower than expected inflation over the period you held your
Tips, you will have a lower return compared to holding a similar
maturity Treasury bond.

Sometime last year, my firm's investment committee decided to examine if
our portfolio strategies gave our clients enough returns to achieve
their life goals after adjusting for inflation. You see, we have not
included Tips in our portfolios so far and after that meeting, we have
decided to continue excluding Tips. Some of our reasons are:

1. Our clients are mainly Singapore-domiciled and intend to spend their
money in Singapore dollars. Tips' adjustment of principal value is
pegged to US CPI, which does not matter as much for Singapore-domiciled
investors. Also, Tips are naturally only available in USD and are
unhedged, so a Singapore-domiciled investor would have to incur extra
costs of hedging back into SGD which will further impact the
effectiveness of the inflation hedge due to higher costs.

2. Our clients typically have other assets such as physical real estate
that are already very good hedges for inflation, and these also comprise
a significant proportion of the client's net worth, so our clients
already have fairly large parts of their personal portfolios hedged
against inflation.

3. Our use of bonds is mainly to moderate the volatility of our
portfolios so that our clients can stay invested and capture the returns
in the long term. We use equities in our portfolios to allow our clients
to achieve their life goals. Equities have been shown to beat inflation
over the long run and are also a higher returning asset class.

Your situation is likely to be similar to those of our clients. If you
want to beat inflation in the long term, besides having physical real
estate, you should be investing into equities.

However, over the past 18 months, many investors in Singapore have
flocked to put their money into fixed deposits, Singapore Savings Bonds,
Singapore's Treasury bills and even money market funds due to the
attractive interest rates and yields.

This is a correct decision if your goal is to mitigate inflation for the
short term; that is, investing with money that you may need now or soon
-- such as your emergency fund, or money that you need to put down soon
for the deposit of a house, or funds meant for your childrens'
university education in a year or two. But it would be unwise if you are
using money that was meant to fight inflation and enhance future
purchasing power in the long term.

Some may say that they are waiting for the recovery of the equities
markets to be more certain. But just as Tips is only useful as an
inflation hedge when there is no inflation, you want to be invested in
the equities markets at all times to capture the returns when it
happens.

Besides, there is no way to know when a strong recovery will happen.
Should it happen while your money is stuck with say, T-bills, you would
not be able to participate in the recovery of the equities markets.

We are often worried about the risks today because they can be seen, but
ignore the potential dangers tomorrow because they are not yet visible.
But if we had the foresight in the past to prepare ourselves well for
today, there will be less to worry about now.

So, think far ahead. Do not use money meant to fight inflation in the
long term to mitigate inflation now. This is not wise at all.

The writer is CEO, Providend Ltd, Singapore's first and probably sole
fee-only comprehensive wealth advisory firm. He can be contacted at
chris_tan@providend.com

Graphic

Equities have been shown to beat inflation over the long run and are
also a higher returning asset class. PHOTO: PIXABAY

Load-Date: May 22, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Inflation down to 6.0%!

CE Noticias Financieras English

May 24, 2023 Wednesday

Copyright 2023 Content Engine, LLC.

All Rights Reserved

Copyright 2023 CE Noticias Financieras All Rights Reserved

Length: 387 words

Body

AIDA RAMÍREZ

Photo: Cuartoscuro

The National Institute of Statistics and Geography (INEGI) announced
that annual general inflation in Mexico stood at 6.00 percent in the
first fortnight of May of this year, decreasing 0.32 percent, which is
the lowest level in the last 20 months.

The products whose prices rose in the first fortnight of May 2023 and
which influenced inflation were potatoes and other tubers, with a
variation of 7.0 percent; air transportation, with 4.58 percent;
oranges, with an increase of 3.48 percent; sugar with 2.25 percent and
pet food, with an increase of 1.15 percent.

While the products that showed a downward price in the same period were
electricity, with 21.22 percent; lemon, down 16.63 percent; green
tomato, down 4.12 percent; clothes washers, down 3.64 percent; package
tourist services, down 2.90 percent.

It was explained that the National Consumer Price Index (NCPI) showed a
decrease of 2.90 percent.

(INPC) presented a 0.32 percent decrease with respect to the previous
fortnight. In the same fortnight of 2022, biweekly inflation was -0.06
percent and annual inflation was 7.58 percent.

The core price index, considered a better parameter to measure general
inflation because it eliminates highly volatile items, registered an
increase of 0.18 percent at a biweekly rate and at an annual rate of
7.45 percent.

Likewise, in the same period, the non-core price index fell 1.85 percent
biweekly and grew 1.70 percent at annual rate.

INEGI's report indicates that within the core index, at a biweekly rate,
merchandise prices rose 0.17 percent and services prices rose 0.19
percent.

Within the non-core index, at a biweekly rate, prices of agricultural
products fell 0.52 percent and those of energy and government-authorized
tariffs, 2.99 percent. This was mainly due to adjustments in electricity
tariffs due to the warm season in 11 of the country's cities.

The price index of the minimum consumption basket, made up of 176
products and services, fell 0.58 percent biweekly and grew 6.26 percent
at annual rate. In the same period of 2022, it decreased 0.35 percent
and increased 8.14 percent, respectively.

Consumer prices closed 2022 up 7.82 percent annually, the highest level
for a year-end in 22 years and so far this century.

The post Inflation drops to 6.0%! first appeared on Ovaciones.

Load-Date: May 25, 2023

  End of Document

[]

More pain as food inflation reaches 9.6pc

The Australian

May 23, 2023 Tuesday

Australian Edition

Copyright 2023 Nationwide News Pty Limited All Rights Reserved

Section: BUSINESS; Pg. 15

Length: 762 words

Byline: ELI GREENBLAT

Body

Hopes that soaring food and grocery prices were easing to relieve
pressures on household budgets have been dashed after investment bank
UBS said food inflation reached a new peak of 9.6 per cent in April, as
supply chain and labour pressures continue to cause pain at the checkout
for shoppers.

Much of the pain is coming from fresh produce, with fresh food inflation
rising to 9.9 per cent in April, although that was slightly down from
inflation of 10.1 per cent in March.

UBS analyst Shaun Cousins described the increasing rate of food
inflation as a surprise, and inconsistent with recent reports from
heavyweights Woolworths and Coles of food prices coming down.

The bank tracks more than 60,000 food and grocery prices to produce its
Price Tracker monitor. And April's figure disputes supermarket sector
reports that prices were coming back from recent inflationary spikes,
with the cost of a basket of items at retailers hitting a new peak in
April.

News of the consistently high and stubborn food prices will place
further pressures on households already battling other cost-of-living
pressures such as rising mortgages and rents.

According to UBS, food inflation, excluding tobacco, averaged 9.6 per
cent in April, up from 9.4 per cent in March and 9.1 per cent for the
third quarter.

In terms of the major supermarket chains, Coles inflation was 10.5 per
cent in April, against 9.1 per cent in March, with Woolworths food
inflation registering 8.7 per cent growth in April, down from 9.7 per
cent in March.

However, retail giant Coles has dismissed the UBS food inflation report
as "not an accurate reflection" of the way the chain calculates
inflation across its aisles and online.

"UBS's sample data does not capture our full range of products and does
not capture changes in customer buying behaviours which impact our sales
volumes and product mix," a Coles spokeswoman said when contacted by The
Australian.

"This is integral to capturing an accurate reflection of overall
supermarket inflation. UBS used the same price tracker for a report
ahead of the 2023 third-quarter results and reported Coles inflation at
9 per cent. Our official inflation figure was reported significantly
lower at 6.2 per cent." Meanwhile, in terms of the key supermarket
categories, fresh food inflation was 9.9 per cent in April, down from
10.1 per cent in March but up against 8.9 per cent in February. Dry
grocery inflation rose 9.4 per cent in April, against 9 per cent in
March.

"While monthly pricing data is volatile, especially fresh given supply
variability, it is valuable given the current period of materially high
food inflation," Mr Cousins said.

"The increasing rate of food inflation is a surprise, and inconsistent
with the declines reported by Coles and Woolworths in the third
quarter." He said the reason for the stubbornly high food and grocery
inflation could stem from supply-chain costs and labour costs.

"We suggest the achievement of a new peak in food inflation (ex tobacco)
is due to ongoing cost pressures on suppliers due to commodities and the
domestic supply chain including labour," he said.

Mr Cousins expects a moderation in dry grocery inflation, while fresh
inflation is expected to slow due to improving supply.

"Dry grocery inflation is likely to remain elevated as pressures on
commodities and the domestic supply chain including labour continue in
calendar 2023, although the frequency of price rises may reduce," he
said.

The rise in inflationary pressures at the major supermarkets is in stark
contrast to recent comments from the retailers at their latest quarterly
updates, where there was a signal that near-double digit inflation in
key food and groceries was moderating.

In late April, then outgoing Coles CEO Steven Cain said inflation was
starting to moderate. This was also shown in its results, with Coles
reporting at the time that total supermarkets price inflation of 6.2 per
cent slowed in the third quarter, compared to 7.7 per cent in the second
quarter, with packaged groceries inflation of 7.2 per cent (7.9 per cent
in the second quarter) and fresh food inflation of 4.1 per cent (7.1 per
cent in the second quarter).

At his quarterly sales update, Woolworths CEO Brad Banducci said he
shared the frustration of his shoppers, who were facing steeper prices,
but that there was a sense that those inflationary peaks were starting
to flatten. The UBS report also said higher prices at the checkout would
push more customers to switch to private label groceries, which both
Woolworths and Coles have said was a growing trend at their stores.

Load-Date: May 22, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Inflation analysis: Series of interest rate hikes to start within weeks
despite fall in headline inflation

Scotsman

May 24, 2023 Wednesday

Copyright 2023 JPIMedia Publishing Ltd All Rights Reserved

[]

Section: BUSINESSCONSUMERCOST OF LIVINGBUSINESS

Length: 935 words

Highlight: A series of further interest rate hikes are on the way
starting within weeks despite the headline rate of inflation falling
back into single-digit territory.

Body

The widely-tracked consumer prices index (CPI) measure of inflation fell
to an annual rate of 8.7 per cent in April, down from 10.1 per cent in
March, as last year’s big energy price increases were not repeated. That
is the lowest level in more than a year but the headline figure reported
by the Office for National Statistics (ONS) came in higher than the 8.2
per cent pencilled in by economists.

Putting energy costs to one side, the latest data showed food CPI
inflation standing at 19.3 per cent, down only slightly on March's
eye-watering 19.6 per cent. Recent research suggested that shoppers have
been switching away from branded products and opting for supermarkets’
own-brand alternatives to save money at the till. However, many
retailers have been increasing the prices of their own-label ranges,
which they have greater control over, faster than those of branded
goods.

Jeremy Batstone-Carr, European strategist at Raymond James Investment
Services, pointed out that core CPI - seen as a far more vital gauge for
the Bank of England as it attempts to put a lid on soaring inflation -
had risen markedly to 6.8 per cent, from 6.2 per cent. This is the
highest level in more than two decades. Traders increased their
expectations of the peak in interest rates, which currently stand at 4.5
per cent, from 5 per cent to as much as 5.5 per cent as the pound
rallied against the US dollar.

Batstone-Carr said: “While there may be some positive movement on some
fronts - producer price data recently revealed that food input prices
are on a declining trend, fuelling hope that March’s dizzying food
inflation rate was the high-water mark - this core CPI print, notably an
extremely unwelcome rise in service sector prices, has dealt a crushing
blow to a beleaguered Bank [of England]. We may still be far from the
peak of [interest] rate hikes, with another quarter point surely on the
table for June 22.”

George Lagarias, chief economist at Mazars, noted: “Overall, headline
inflation remains uncomfortably high and, what’s worse, increasingly
dynamic. This could lead to more than the two rate hikes the market,
perhaps optimistically, expects. Until the Bank of England sees evidence
of the vicious price-wage cycle breaking and demand conditions
sufficiently tame, we should expect increasingly tighter credit
conditions and pressures on consumers and businesses.”

The fall in headline CPI reflects last April’s sky high rise in energy
bills dropping out of the calculation, with the energy price cap having
jumped higher a year ago as wholesale prices rocketed after Russia’s
invasion of Ukraine. Last April, the energy price cap soared by 54 per
cent to £1,971, but this year the Energy Price Guarantee (EPG) has been
kept at £2,500 since last October. Ofgem is set to confirm on Thursday
that energy prices will fall sharply for households in July, when the
current EPG comes to an end.

But inflation has been stubbornly higher than predicted, with the rate
of food CPI the second highest for more than 45 years. The Bank of
England’s top bosses admitted to MPs on Tuesday that the central bank
made errors in its forecasting of UK inflation, but governor Andrew
Bailey insisted that inflation had “turned the corner”. The Bank
predicted earlier this month that inflation would fall to 5.1 per cent
in the fourth quarter of 2023, narrowly seeing the UK Government hit its
target to halve inflation by the end of the year.

Nicholas Hyett, investment analyst at Wealth Club, said: “As we lap the
dramatic spike in energy prices following the Russian invasion of
Ukraine, some decline in annualised inflation was inevitable. As a
result, year-on-year price growth is now out of double figures - albeit
still eye watering at 8.7 per cent and higher than economists had hoped.
However, the devil’s in the detail.

“The energy shock may be fading, but month-on-month inflation is higher
in April than it has been at any time since last October as
communication, transport, alcohol, tobacco and food prices continue to
rise. Core inflation, the kind of price rises that are created by the UK
domestically, rather than forced upon the country by global energy and
food prices, is at the highest it’s been in over 20 years. All this
means it remains too early to celebrate victory in the Bank of England’s
war against inflation. [These] numbers probably strengthen the case for
higher interest rates at the next MPC [Monetary Policy Committee]
meeting, and that means the pain will continue for consumers and
businesses alike.”

The latest ONS data also showed the CPI measure of inflation including
housing costs (CPIH) fell to 7.8 per cent in April from 8.9 per cent in
March, while the retail prices index (RPI) slowed to 11.4 per cent from
13.5 per cent in March.

TUC general secretary Paul Nowak said: “Prices are still rising much
faster than wages. And families cannot restore their lost living
standards without stronger wage growth. But Rishi Sunak does not have a
plan to get wages rising. And he wants to sack workers who use their
right to strike to get a fair pay deal. We all want inflation to fall
faster. But working families are also suffering from this government’s
failure to get wages growing. This needs to change too,” he added.

Chancellor Jeremy Hunt said: “Although it is positive that [inflation]
is now in single digits, food prices are still rising too fast. So as
well as helping families with around £3,000 of cost-of-living support
this year and last, we must stick resolutely to the plan to get
inflation down.”

IMF 'eats humble pie' with dramatic UK upgrade as inflation set to cool
sharply

Graphic

The latest data showed food CPI inflation standing at 19.3 per cent,
down only slightly on March's eye-watering 19.6 per cent.

Load-Date: May 24, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Singapore Inflation Rises Slightly To 5.7%

CE Noticias Financieras English

May 23, 2023 Tuesday

Copyright 2023 Content Engine, LLC.

All Rights Reserved

Copyright 2023 CE Noticias Financieras All Rights Reserved

Length: 437 words

Body

Singapore's consumer price inflation increased somewhat in April after
easing to a 9-month low in March amid increased costs for services and
private transport, while the core figure was unchanged, data published
by the Monetary Authority of Singapore and the Ministry of Trade and
Industry showed on Tuesday.

The consumer price index, or CPI, climbed 5.7 percent year-over-year in
May, slightly faster than the 5.5 percent increase in the previous
month. Economists had forecast inflation to remain stable at 5.5
percent.

Meanwhile, the MAS core inflation stood at 5.0 percent in May, the same
as in the previous month. Economists had expected the rate to ease to
4.7 percent.

The core inflation was unchanged as lower price growth for electricity
and gas, food and retail, and other goods were offset by higher
inflation for travel-related services.

Month-on-month, the core consumer prices moved up 0.4 percent in April,
due to the higher cost of holiday expenses and airfare. The total CPI
edged up 0.1 percent versus a 0.5 percent gain in the prior month.

Among the main categories, private transport inflation accelerated to
10.4 percent from 8.6 percent as car prices rose more steeply.

Costs for services grew at a faster annual rate of 4.3 percent in April
after a 3.4 percent rise in March. The upward trend was attributed to
increased airfares and holiday expenses.

On the other hand, food inflation eased to 7.1 percent from 7.7 percent,
and that of electricity and gas moderated markedly to 2.7 percent from
12.2 percent due to smaller increases in both electricity costs and the
gas tariff.

Looking ahead, core inflation is expected to stay elevated in the next
few months. Nonetheless, it will remain on a broad moderating path,
before slowing more discernibly in the second half of 2023 as imported
inflation falls further and the current tightness in the domestic labor
market eases, the MAS said.

Domestically, unit labor costs are likely to increase in the near term.
Businesses will continue passing through accumulated labor costs to
consumers, though at a more moderate pace amid the slowdown in domestic
economic activity.

Singapore's import prices declined on an annual basis on the back of
easing global supply chain pressures and energy and food commodity
prices.

For 2023 as a whole, headline and core inflation are projected to
average 5.5-6.5 percent and 3.5- 4.5 percent, respectively.

There are upside risks to the inflation outlook, including from fresh
shocks to global commodity prices and more persistent-than-expected
tightness in the domestic labor market, the MAS said.

Load-Date: May 24, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Rocketing food prices keep inflation fall slight

The Western Mail

May 25, 2023 Thursday

Edition 1, National Edition

Copyright 2023 Reach PLC All Rights Reserved

Section: NEWS; Pg. 11

Length: 482 words

Byline: HOLLY WILLIAMS

Body

SOARING food prices have seen UK inflation ease back far less than
expected in April, keeping up the pressure on households and raising the
spectre of yet more interest rate rises.

The Office for National Statistics said Consumer Prices Index (CPI)
inflation fell to its lowest level for more than a year last month, at
8.7% down from 10.1% in March, as energy prices stabilised after
sky-high rises a year ago.

But it was higher than forecast by economists, who had pencilled in a
drop to 8.2% in April, and more than the Bank of England had predicted
just two weeks ago.

The figures showed food inflation at 19.3%, down only slightly on
March's eye-watering 19.6% and remaining close to the highest rate for
more than 45 years.

Chancellor Jeremy Hunt admitted food prices are "still rising too fast".

He said: "Today's fall in inflation...

shows we're on the right track but there is no room for complacency."

"It's tough right now but things will get better," he added.

Economists said another rise in interest rates was looking increasing
likely after inflation had not fallen as fast as hoped.

London's FTSE 100 Index slumped by 1.6% in mid-morning trading yesterday
as the inflation surprise led to bets of more rate rises, compounding
global market fears over a US debt deal.

Rates are at 4.5% because the Bank of England has voted for 12 hikes in
a row to try to curb the cost crisis, and financial markets are pricing
in rates to hit nearly 5.5%.

Samuel Tombs, at Pantheon Macroeconomics, said April's inflation
decrease was "too small a drop for the Monetary Policy Committee (MPC)
to stop hiking in June".

Martin Beck, chief economic adviser to the EY Item Club, said: "Today's
inflation data raises the chances of a further rate rise at the MPC's
meeting next month.

"However, with the MPC set to see another round of labour market and
inflation data released before the June meeting, today's data doesn't
mean a further rate increase next month is a certainty."

The steep fall in CPI, to its lowest level since last March, reflects
last year's initial sky-high rises in power bills dropping out of the
calculation.

Last April, the energy price cap leapt up by 54% to £1,971 after
Russia's invasion of Ukraine sent wholesale gas and electricity prices
rocketing, but this year the Energy Price Guarantee (EPG) has been kept
at £2,500 since last October.

Ofgem is set to confirm today that energy prices will fall sharply for
households in July.

Consultancy firm Cornwall Insight predicts the price cap will fall by
£446 to £2,054 a year, based on falling wholesale energy prices.

But inflation has been stubbornly higher than predicted, raising doubts
over the government's ability to meet its target to halve inflation by
the year end. The Bank of England's top bosses admitted to MPs on
Tuesday it made errors in its forecasting, but governor Andrew Bailey
insisted inflation has "turned the corner".

Graphic

>>Food prices remain close to a 40-year high as the cost-of-living
crisis continues to hit UK households hard

Load-Date: May 25, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Inflation jolt for bonds

Mail on Sunday (London)

May 25, 2023 Thursday

Edition 1, National Edition

Copyright 2023 Associated Newspapers Ltd. All Rights Reserved

Section: NEWS; Pg. 69

Length: 397 words

Byline: Alex Brummer

Body

JUST when it looked as if the Liz Truss bond market shock was finally in
the rear mirror, the country is starting to pay a heavy price for the
Bank of England's lamentable inflation fighting record.

The latest consumer prices data was disturbing enough for traders to
send the yield on two-year gilt-edged stock soaring to www.4.39pc.UK
bonds haven't taken such a hammering since the mini-Budget of last
autumn. Politically this is unhelpful to Rishi Sunak. When the Prime
Minister vowed to halve inflation this year, there was some impolite
cackling as it appeared too easy a target to achieve.

The thinking at the Bank of England was that headline prices were
heading back towards the 2pc target or even lower. At the Treasury, the
sotto voce prediction was that five points could be shaved by the
summer.

Progress has been notoriously slow, and the April consumer prices index
(CPI), down from 10.1pc to 8.7pc, is way above most forecasts. Core
inflation, excluding volatile energy and food prices, climbed from 6.2pc
to 6.8pc, the highest level for three decades, driven by the cost of
services.

This could be disastrous for the Government as it seeks to keep the lid
on pay demands from nurses, junior doctors and railway workers.

As worrying, it may give the Bank of England very little choice but to
keep raising interest rates with the markets pricing in a bank rate of
5.25pc at the end of the year.

That in itself is self-destructive in that it means higher variable and
fixed-rate mortgage deals, which raise the housing element in the prices
data.

The danger is that the Monetary Policy

Committee will decide it has no choice but to keep raising interest
rates, even if it means killing a nascent recovery stone dead.

A troubling social aspect of the Bank's failure to accurately model and
cut inflation is rocketing food prices.

By now, one would have expected the energy, freight and logistics cost
of Covid- 19, and Russia's war on Ukraine, to have worn off.

Instead, food and soft drink inflation, running at 19.1pc, is barely
down on March.

We have heard a great deal about the price war for milk. Less discussed
is the fact that, over the last year, milk, cheese and egg prices have
shot up 29.3pc.

Since food prices weigh most heavily on the least well off, this is
unconscionable.

The shard of economic optimism from the IMF this week is in danger of
vanishing over the horizon.

Load-Date: May 25, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Inflation in Mexico slows down in the first half of May; annual
inflation stands at 6%.

CE Noticias Financieras English

May 24, 2023 Wednesday

Copyright 2023 Content Engine, LLC.

All Rights Reserved

Copyright 2023 CE Noticias Financieras All Rights Reserved

Length: 498 words

Body

-   Exchange Rates: Dollar Price in Mexico today, Wednesday, May 24,
      2023

2.  Citigroup: Banamex to be sold through the BMV after purchase fails
      to materialize

2.  Will you work all your life, or are you already saving for
      retirement? Consar guides you

2.  Public finances are within the 2023 goals: Treasury

During the first fortnight of May, inflation registered a significant
drop of 0.32 percent compared to the previous fortnight, standing at 6
percent annualized, according to information provided by the National
Institute of Statistics and Geography (Inegi).

It is important to mention that the figure obtained this first fortnight
of the month is lower than the one expected by the market; according to
a Reuters poll, it would be 6.15 percent for the National Consumer Price
Index (NCPI). With this, annual inflation has fallen for eight
consecutive weeks.

"In the first fortnight of May 2023, the National Consumer Price Index
(INPC) had a decrease of 0.32 percent with respect to the previous
fortnight. With this result, annual headline inflation stood at 6.00
percent. In the same fortnight of 2022, biweekly inflation was -0.06
percent and annual inflation was 7.58 percent," Inegi added in its press
release.

In the case of core inflation, a parameter to measure the trajectory of
prices because it eliminates highly volatile products, it registered an
increase of 0.18 percent at a fortnightly rate and 7.45 percent at an
annual rate. The result is also lower than the 7.49 percent increase
estimated by the market.

Within core inflation, merchandise prices rose 0.17 percent and services
0.19 percent.

Meanwhile, within the non-core index, at a biweekly rate, prices of
agricultural products fell 0.52 percent, and those of energy and
government-authorized tariffs decreased 2.99 percent. This reduction was
mainly due to adjustments in electricity tariffs for the warm season in
11 Mexican cities.

Headline inflation is still above the Bank of Mexico's target of 3
percent +/- one percentage point. The central bank recently paused its
interest rate hikes, although it acknowledged that the outlook remains
"complicated and uncertain".

Products that rose and fell the most in price

Potatoes and other tubers increased 7 percent, followed by air
transportation with 4.58 percent, oranges with 3.48 percent, sugar with
2.25 percent, pet food with 1.15 percent, restaurants and similar items
0.50 percent; lunch bars, fondas, torterías and taquerias with 0.40
percent; automobiles with 0.33 percent and bottled soft drinks with 0.26
percent increase.

On the other hand, the products that registered decreases were
electricity with -21.22 percent, followed by lemon with -16.63 percent,
green tomato -4.12 percent, clothes washers -3.64 percent, packaged
tourist services -2.90 percent, computers -2.61 percent, chicken -1.51
percent, domestic LP gas -0.70 percent, egg -0.52 percent and Magna
gasoline 0.35 percent.

Inflation does not respect even what is given away rises

Load-Date: May 25, 2023

  End of Document

[]

RPI vs CPI: what’s the difference between cost of living ONS indexes -
how UK inflation rate is measured

National World

May 24, 2023 Wednesday

Copyright 2023 JPIMedia Publishing Ltd All Rights Reserved

[]

Section: MONEYUKEXPLAINERS

Length: 845 words

Highlight: UK inflation fell to 8.7% on the Consumer Prices Index (CPI)
but it means the cost of living crisis is refusing to go away as fast as
economists had hoped

Body

After more than a year of record inflation and rising interest rates,
the UK has been in the midst of its worst cost of living crisis since
the 1970s.

The rate of price rises in the economy dropped to 8.7% in April 2023,
according to the Office for National Statistics (ONS) Consumer Prices
Index (CPI). It means prices are rising, but at a slower pace than they
were in March when the rate was 10.1%.

It also did not fall by as much as the Bank of England had hoped. It
means interest rates - the tool the UK central bank uses to control
inflation - could be set for another hike in June. The current rate of
4.5% means they are already at their highest level since the 2008/09
financial crisis.

The situation comes as the UK struggles with a flatlining economy and
widespread discontent at real-terms declines in wages caused by
inflation. Households were hit by further cost increases in April as a
result of council tax hikes, an effective income tax increase and rises
in other utility bills, such as water.

While we measure price rises through the CPI, another tool the ONS uses
is the the Retail Prices Index (RPI). But why does the ONS publish two
measures of inflation - the CPI and RPI - and what do these indexes
show?

How does the ONS measure inflation?

Inflation is an economic term used to describe price rises for goods and
services - and therefore, the spending power of money - in a country
over a particular period of time. The rate of these increases can vary
based on a number of factors.

For example, if energy costs are high - as they currently are - the
price of producing a particular item will go up. In turn, this
production cost rise is then likely to increase the product’s shelf
price, meaning it has undergone price inflation.

Every month, the ONS gauges whether prices are inflating or deflating by
looking at roughly 180,000 prices for around 700 everyday items - it’s
so-called ‘basket of goods’ in 140 locations across the UK. It then
compares the current average price of these goods with the average it
measured the previous year.

So, the 8.7% increase measured by the CPI for April 2023 means goods are
priced 8.7% higher on average than they were 12 months previosuly.
Translated into real terms, a product that cost £1 on average in March
last year, cost just under £1.09 in April 2023. It’s also worth noting
that last April’s inflation rate was sitting at 9%, so the latest rate
is coming on top of what were already significant price hikes.

While these figures show the overall direction of travel for inflation,
several categories are running higher and lower than the headline
figure. For example, eggs have an inflation rate of 37% while petrol is
deflating at a rate of 9.9%.

These statistics are not only used by the government to set the level of
state benefits, among other things, but it also helps UK households to
appraise how far their budgets will stretch and when they should make
major purchases. However, the ONS takes two slightly different
approaches in how it expresses price inflation.

What is the CPI index?

The CPI index is a measure of inflation measured solely using the ONS’s
‘basket of goods’ - a list of items deemed to be central to UK daily
life, which is updated every year to reflect changing shopping habits.

For example, meat-free sausages, sports bras and antibacterial surface
wipes were added in 2022, and E-bikes, home security cameras and frozen
berries have just been added for this year. Casualties from the 2023
basket of goods include alcopops, digital compact cameras and CDs that
are not in the UK Top 40.

This basket is weighted so that goods which are more important to
households, such as milk, have a greater influence over the index
overall than items that are less integral to daily life. These
weightings also change over time as shopping habits change or new
products move into the mainstream.

CPI is used by major economies across the globe and was formally adopted
by the UK in 1996. As the official measure of inflation, it helps to
determine the state pension, state benefits and statutory sick pay -
rates that tend to be determined by the September CPI. However, it is
not a perfect measure for the UK cost of living as it does not include
several key household costs, like council tax or mortgage repayments.

What is the RPI index?

The RPI index essentially does the same job as the CPI but typically
tracks slightly higher. In October 2022, it hit a record high of 14% but
has since fallen to 11.4%.

Its main point of difference is it includes mortgage interest payments,
so it is more influenced by house prices and interest rates than the
CPI, which does not. It’s actually not used as an official measure of
inflation by the Government because the method of calculating it is seen
as inferior to CPI.

But it is still used to determine prices in some areas of public life,
such as train tickets and phone contracts. The reason why it continues
to be calculated is that it has been running in the UK throughout the
20th century and therefore provides a longer term yardstick for
inflation.

Graphic

Rocketing rates of UK inflation are denting consumer spending power
(image: Shutterstock)

Load-Date: May 24, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Inflation Hits 43.9 %

Daily Guide Network

May 18, 2023 Thursday

Copyright 2023 Daily Guide All Rights Reserved

Length: 242 words

Body

The year-on-year Producer Price Inflation (PPI) for all goods and
services was 43.9 per cent in April 2023, representing a monthly rate of
2.8 per cent.

Government Statistician, Prof. Samuel Kobina Annim at a press briefing
said the industry sector recorded a rate of 43.9 per cent, with the
construction sector having a rate of 20.9 and the service sector, a rate
of 18.4 per cent.

He said the current PPI rate came as a result of inflation that occurred
in the various sub-sectors within the industry, construction, and
service sectors in the economy.

'The Producer Price Index (PPI) rate can be attributed to the mining
industry which has a rate of 45.1 per cent, transportation and storage
at 58.9 per cent, manufacturing 41.4 per cent, accommodation and food
service activities at 51.1 per cent, electricity and gas at 59.0 per
cent, construction at 20.9 per cent, water supply 20.6 per cent and
Information and Communication at 11.8 per cent,' he shared.

He also explained that the highest monthly producer inflation was mining
which recorded a rate of 7.3 per cent followed by the construction
sector at 4.8 per cent.

'Electricity and gas recorded an inflation of 1.1 per cent and The
Information and Communication also recorded an inflation of -0.8 per
cent. The rate for transportation and storage was at -0.5 whiles
accommodation and food services was at -0.9 per cent,' he stated.

The manufacturing industry also recorded a rate of -1.4 per cent.

Load-Date: May 19, 2023

  End of Document

[]

UK Inflation Strengthens Call For June Rate Hike

CE Noticias Financieras English

May 24, 2023 Wednesday

Copyright 2023 Content Engine, LLC.

All Rights Reserved

Copyright 2023 CE Noticias Financieras All Rights Reserved

Length: 539 words

Body

UK consumer price inflation slowed less than expected in April and the
core rate accelerated unexpectedly to a 31-year high, strengthening the
case for another interest rate hike from the Bank of England in June.

The consumer price index, or CPI, registered an annual increase of 8.7
percent in April after a 10.1 percent gain in March, the Office for
National Statistics reported Wednesday.

Although inflation eased from April, the rate was above economists'
forecast of 8.3 percent.

Core inflation that excludes energy, food, alcoholic beverages and
tobacco advanced to 6.8 percent in April from 6.2 percent in the
previous month.

Core inflation rose to the highest since March 1992, while economists
had expected the rate to remain unchanged at 6.2 percent.

On a monthly basis, consumer prices gained 1.2 percent, which was faster
than the 0.8 percent rise in March.

"The combination of resilient activity and rapidly easing inflation
always looked a bit too good to be true to us," Capital Economics'
economist Paul Dales said.

The research firm had earlier expected that a near-term recession would
quash inflation. But it now looks as though the central bank is going to
have to hike interest rates even higher to generate the necessary
economic weakness, Dales said.

Inflation data undoubtedly makes life harder for policymakers and no
doubt raises the chance of yet another 25 basis point rate hike next
month, ING economist James Smith said.

The next monetary policy announcement is due on June 22. The BoE had
lifted its benchmark interest rate over the last twelve straight
sessions to its highest level since 2008.

In the concluding statement of the Article IV Mission of International
Monetary Fund released Tuesday, staff said the UK economy is set to
avoid a recession and that the monetary policy will need to remain tight
to keep a lid on inflation.

The Washington-based lender cautioned that inflation would remain above
the 2 percent target until mid-2025.The IMF warned against "premature
celebrations" in the fight against inflation.

The ONS said slowdown in overall inflation was driven by electricity and
gas prices as last April's rise dropped out of the annual comparison.
Nonetheless, electricity and gas prices contributed 1.01 percentage
points to annual inflation.

At the same time, food and non-alcoholic beverages continued to rise in
April. However, the annual increase in food and non-alcoholic beverages
prices eased to 19.1 percent from 19.2 percent.

Input price inflation hit its lowest level since February 2021 and
factory gate inflation reached the weakest since July 2021, the ONS said
in a separate communique.

Input prices grew only 3.9 percent in April after March's 7.3 percent
increase. At the same time, month-on-month, input prices fell 0.3
percent, reversing a 0.2 percent rise in March.

Output price inflation slowed to 5.4 percent in April from 8.5 percent
in the previous month. On a monthly basis, output prices remained flat
for the second straight month.

Elsewhere, the monthly Industrial Trends survey results from the
Confederation of British Industry showed that a net 17 percent of
manufacturers said total orders declined in May compared to 20 percent
in April.

Load-Date: May 25, 2023

  End of Document

[]

UK inflation falls but high food prices persist

China Daily

May 25, 2023 Thursday

Copyright 2023 China Daily Information. Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
All Rights Reserved

[]

Length: 462 words

Byline: China Daily Global

Body

By JONATHAN POWELL in London | China Daily Global | Updated: 2023-05-25
09:58

Inflation in the United Kingdom fell to 8.7 percent in April, its
sharpest decline since the cost of living crisis began, but food prices
continue to rise, according to official figures.

The latest data from the Office for National Statistics shows price
growth dipping out of double-digit figures for the first time since last
summer, down from 10.1 percent in March.

City economists had forecast a bigger decline in April to 8.2 percent,
moving further away from October's 41-year high of 11.1 percent,
reported Reuters news agency.

Analysts had expected the Consumer Prices Index to drop further, as it
no longer included the surge in energy prices that immediately followed
the start of the Russia-Ukraine conflict.

ONS chief economist Grant Fitzner said: "The rate of inflation fell
notably as the large energy price rises seen last year were not repeated
this April.

"However, prices in general remain substantially higher than they were
this time last year, with annual food price inflation near historic
highs."

The ONS said the inflation rate was offset partially by "upward effects"
coming from recreation and culture, alcoholic beverages and tobacco,
communication, and transport.

Though UK food price inflation fell marginally from March to April, food
prices rose 19.1 percent year on year, near record highs. Olive oil,
eggs, and sauces and spices saw the biggest price increases.

A closely watched measure of core price rises, which excludes food and
energy costs, surged to a 31-year high of 6.8 percent, raising the
chances of more interest rate hikes, Reuters said.

The latest figures leave the UK with the joint highest rate of inflation
among Group of Seven advanced economies alongside Italy, noted the BBC.

Chancellor of the Exchequer Jeremy Hunt, the UK's finance minister,
welcomed the sharp fall in the headline rate of inflation, but said food
prices remained "worryingly" high.

"The IMF said yesterday we've acted decisively to tackle inflation but
although it is positive that it is now in single digits, food prices are
still rising too fast," he said. "We must stick resolutely to the plan
to get inflation down."

The UK's inflation rate has remained high despite the economy avoiding a
recession, leading the Bank of England to raise interest rates to 4.5
percent at its last meeting, earlier this month. Whether it will
increase rates further in the coming month remains uncertain, reported
The Times newspaper.

Paul Dales from Capital Economics predicted in a client note that
inflation has persisted more than the Bank of England anticipated,
indicating a possible 0.25 percent increase in interest rates by June,
with a possibility of further increases in the following months.

Load-Date: May 25, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Wages falling behind inflation

Geelong Advertiser (Australia)

May 18, 2023 Thursday

Geelong Edition

Copyright 2023 Nationwide News Pty Limited All Rights Reserved

Section: NEWS; Pg. 9

Length: 271 words

Byline: Anthony Anderson

Body

Inflation is still eating into the pay packets of Australian workers,
despite an increase in wages growth.

The Australian Bureau of Statistics' latest Wage Price Index report,
released on Wednesday, showed wages increased 3.7 per cent over the 12
months to the March quarter.

But inflation, while declining, is at 7 per cent - well above the
Reserve Bank goal of 2-3 per cent.

Unions welcomed the growth in wages, but said there was still a long way
to go. "Even with inflation starting to fall, the latest wage growth
figures are still growing at barely half the rate of inflation," ACTU
secretary Sally McManus said.

"Measured over the past 12 months, workers have faced an average real
wage cut of 3.3 per cent." At least one economist believes the RBA board
will again raise the official interest rate at its June 6 meeting.

"CPI inflation is being increasingly driven by components that are more
sensitive to labour costs," said Oxford Economics Australia's head of
macroeconomic forecasting Sean Langcake.

Federal Treasurer Jim Chalmers said higher wages were the solution to,
not the cause of, high inflation.

"We have an inflation challenge for a whole range of other reasons, not
because people have been getting paid too much," Dr Chalmers said.

"If anything, for the best part of a decade, wages have been too
stagnant." The ABS said wages were up 0.8 per cent compared with the
previous quarter. The most significant industry contributors to wage
growth were education and training at 1.5 per cent and professional,
scientific and technical services at 0.9 per cent. Public sector wages
rose 0.9 per cent over the quarter.

Load-Date: May 17, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Defeating "sticky" inflation

CE Noticias Financieras English

May 18, 2023 Thursday

Copyright 2023 Content Engine, LLC.

All Rights Reserved

Copyright 2023 CE Noticias Financieras All Rights Reserved

Length: 353 words

Body

The IMF has warned that global inflation is "stickier" than expected,
making it more complex to return to normal. This is particularly complex
in Latin America, warns the multilateral organization, as inflation will
average around 13.3% this year, while in Asia it will be only 3.4%.

This "sticky" inflation, also known as "sticky prices", refers to the
tendency of some prices to remain constant or adjust slowly, despite the
fact that the cost of production has fallen considerably. In the case of
Chile, inflation without volatility has remained at around 11% since
mid-2022, being 10.3% the variation observed last April. In this regard,
the Central Bank has pointed out that the evolution of this index is
crucial to determine the Monetary Policy Rate corridor and that a
premature drop would jeopardize all the progress made so far.

Staying the course and resisting pressures to hasten the lowering of the
TPM is the way to leave this inflationary shock behind.

Although considerable price reductions have begun to be observed in
basic products, particularly cereals and oils, in the case of processed
goods such moderation is much more modest. One example is bread, whose
price rose 32.8% last August and which in April showed an annualized
increase of 14.4%. This moderation does not respond to price drops, but
to increasingly moderate increases, unlike what has occurred with the
price of flour during the last few months.

The explanation for this apparent discrepancy is that the processed
product is not only the sum of basic inputs, but must also incorporate
the cost of labor, and through this variable, the general inflation
observed in previous periods is introduced via readjustment.

Thus, the IMF's observation and the Chilean issuing institute's warning
are in charge of this "sticky" inflation that shows greater difficulty
in moving to the established target range, which should occur in the
second quarter of next year. Thus, staying the course and resisting the
pressures to hasten the lowering of the TPM is the way to leave behind
this inflationary shock that has caused so much harm to the public.

Load-Date: May 19, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Bank set to tighten inflation screws again

Daily Dispatch (South Africa)

May 23, 2023 Tuesday

Copyright 2023 Arena Holdings (Pty) Ltd. All Rights Reserved

[]

Section: ECONOMY, BUSINESS & FINANCE; Pg. 8

Length: 592 words

Body

Eyes will be on AfDB annual meetings, interest rate announcement and
consumer inflation data

The focus will be on the African Development Bank's (AfDB) annual
meetings in Sharm El-Sheikh, Egypt, as well as the Reserve Bank's
monetary policy committee (MPC) meeting, after which an interest rate
announcement will be made on Thursday.

Stats SA will release the consumer inflation rate for April on
Wednesday.

On Tuesday, the Reserve Bank will hold its third meeting for the year.
The Bank's MPC surprised most commentators in March with a narrow
three-two vote split, hiking the repo rate by 50 basis points (bps)
instead of the widely expected 25 bps.

Absa senior economist Miyelani Maluleke said at the time that the
overall tenor of the MPC and subsequent question-and-answer session was
"uncompromising" on the need for tough action to contain inflation, even
as the MPC retained its gloomy view on the country's growth prospects.

"Since then, the rand has weakened significantly more than expected and
this represents a strong materialisation of a key upside risk to
interest rates that we flagged in our forecast write-up," he said.

"The Bank stated clearly at the March MPC meeting and recent forum that
the priority is to bring inflation down."

Maluleke said Bank governor Lesetja Kganyago has stressed that allowing
inflation and inflation expectations to settle at higher levels will
require a costlier policy adjustment.

Reserve Bank deputy governor Kuben Naidoo recently said the exchange
rate and load-shedding are two risks that may result in the MPC taking
"further steps to bring inflation down".

"Against this context, we believe that the MPC will respond to the big
exchange rate weakening with more tightening," Maluleke said.

"We now expect the Bank to hike the repo rate by 50 bps at the May MPC
meeting."

Investec's Lara Hodes said it also expected the MPC to hike rates by 50
bps, with headline consumer inflation "proving sticky", while the rand
has notably depreciated.

FNB chief economist Mamello Matikinca-Ngwenya said the question is
whether the MPC will extend the hiking cycle.

"While we hold the view that the MPC has cause to pause, having hiked by
a cumulative 425 bps to date, there is a high probability that another
25-50 bps will be implemented.

"This would bring the repo rate to 8.25%, the highest level since early
2009, when the interest rate was 9.5%."

On Wednesday, data on consumer inflation for April will be published.
Headline inflation edged up to 7.1% on an annual basis in March, from 7%
in February.

Core inflation was flat at 5.2% but had monthly pressure of 0.8%. FNB
said it expects headline inflation of 7% year on year in April, while
Investec expects inflation of 6.9%.

Other economic numbers coming out this week are the leading business
cycle indicator on Tuesday and data on producer inflation for April on
Thursday.

The AfDB's annual meetings attract about 3,000 participants, including
finance ministers, economists from around the globe, entrepreneurs,
pension and private equity fund managers and financiers.

This year's theme is "mobilising private sector financing for climate
and green growth".

AfDB president Akinwumi Adesina said the continent's finance ministers
will share their experiences on galvanising private financing
domestically and internationally.

They will also discuss how economies can harness natural capital to
bridge the financing gap and promote the transition to green growth in
Africa.

Reserve Bank governor Lesetja Kganyago. Picture: FREDDY MAVUNDA/BUSINESS
DAY

Load-Date: May 24, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Inflation after inflation - By Enrique Szewach

CE Noticias Financieras English

May 14, 2023 Sunday

Copyright 2023 Content Engine, LLC.

All Rights Reserved

Copyright 2023 CE Noticias Financieras All Rights Reserved

Length: 875 words

Body

As I once told you, looking at statistics is like looking at the stars,
you do not see the future, but the past.

However, the information on April's inflation rate of 8.4% released by
INDEC on Friday provides a lot of information about the future.

Let's first explore what the April numbers say.

The first thing that April's price variation reflects is that the
typical downward seasonality of the fourth month of the year has been
broken, which usually presented a lower price variation than that of
March, a month in which, due to the beginning of classes and the change
of season in clothing, plus other elements, a higher inflation rate than
that of April was verified.

In this regard, a curiosity. When explaining the March price increase in
clothing and footwear (9.4%), INDEC experts attributed it to the "change
of season". However, when referring to the price variation in clothing
and footwear in April (10.8%), the report's editors also attributed it
to the "change of season". It seems that we are facing a long change of
season in clothing and footwear, could it be the effect of the drought?

The second thing that the April data show is the sharp increase in food
and beverage prices. The "seasonality" of the prices of meat, milk and
dairy products, eggs and vegetables is again a factor. Here again, we
are facing a long seasonality that began with a downward trend in meat
prices at the end of last year and that continues to rise in these
months.

Another worrying fact reflected in the report is the rate of increase of
prices corresponding to the so-called "core inflation", which we could
consider the inflation rate that best responds to the macro, and which
continues to rise strongly. It was 7.7% in February. It was 7.2% in
March and 8.4% in April.

Lastly, a not minor fact for the political scenario, given that we are
in the midst of an electoral context. The highest inflation rate in the
first four months of the year was recorded in Greater Buenos Aires, the
geographical center of the ruling coalition's clientele.

So far, what the sky shows of the past.

What can we say about the future?

First, beyond tubers (excuse the word), meat, milk, or eggs, we are
facing a macroeconomic inflation. All prices have risen in the last
year, with the exception of some regulated prices of public and private
services, well above 100%. The free exchange rate has increased in the
last year by well over 100%. The Central Bank's monetary liabilities are
also growing at a rate of more than 100% per year.

And aggravating this scenario, we are in a context of unanchored
inflation expectations (everyone expects more inflation in the coming
months, not less). In other words, the economy is already showing
increasing symptoms of inertia and indexation.

Another element of the scenario is that, in fact, we are without an
agreement with the IMF (everything is being "constructively"
renegotiated again, a program that was inconsistent from the beginning
and that drought and malpractice made it unfulfillable).

Let us add, from a political point of view, that we are facing a totally
confused government, with a weak President who has no influence over the
ruling coalition. With the main shareholders in search of candidates and
electoral martingales and with a Minister of Economy asking for internal
order, while trying to obtain, by any means, dollars for the Central
Bank reserves, which will allow him to continue avoiding an adjustment
of the official exchange rate, and not having to restrict even more the
supply of dollars for importers.

And here we are. No time, nor political context, to implement a
stabilization plan worthy of the name.

The use of the official exchange rate as a transitory "anchor" is
becoming weaker and weaker because there is no possibility of adequately
supplying importers, and because exporters are increasingly convinced
that a devaluation is inevitable.

The Central Bank's monetary policy will be dominated by heavy domestic
debt maturities, especially in July, part of which will have to be
covered with more issuance, in a context of falling peso demand.

Any successful negotiation with the IMF, even if, as the officialism
intends, it would allow avoiding a jump in the official exchange rate
and obtaining some dollars to intervene in the market, it is difficult
to imagine that the Fund would accept further exchange and tariff
arrears.

I add an additional difficulty. Even "heterodoxy" is not possible.

A more rigid price control is almost impossible to implement and would
only lead, sooner rather than later, to deeper shortages and informal
markets.

An emergency wage agreement has the major drawback of the size of the
informal labor market. Private sector unions represent fewer and fewer
workers and have, in addition, internal competition.

With no political power, no implementable orthodoxy, and no possible
heterodoxy, the "stabilizers" of Argentina in the coming months seem to
be a new little agreement with the Fund, a deepening of the cepo, the
fall of activity and a further reduction of the purchasing power of
wages, particularly in the informal sector.

Until a few months ago, a 100% annual inflation rate was signed.

Now inflation after inflation is another step and not a spiral.

Link to Image

Load-Date: May 15, 2023

  End of Document

[]

What will inflation falling below 9% mean for you and your money? How
drop in inflation might affect your pension

i-Independent Print Ltd

May 23, 2023

First Edition

Copyright 2023 Associated Newspapers Ltd. All Rights Reserved

[]

Section: NEWS; TEASERS; Pg. 45

Length: 972 words

Body

Inflation is expected to fall to below 9 per cent for the first time in
more than a year when official figures are announced today. The Consumer
Prices Index - measuring the average increase in the prices of goods and
services purchased by households - is expected to fall significantly
later this week when the Office for National Statistics reveals data for
the year up until April 2023.

Most economists are forecasting the rate will fall from 10.1 per cent to
around 8.5 per cent, with the Bank of England's forecast suggesting
inflation will hit 8.2 per cent. This is the lowest it will have been
since March 2022.

WHAT DOES INFLATION GOING DOWN MEAN? Broadly, inflation measures the
increase in the prices of goods or services over the preceding year, and
so a falling rate means that prices of things are starting to increase
at a slower rate.

High inflation erodes the real value of the money in your pocket, with
research from Interactive Investor showing the average household has
lost £5,455 over the past two years through decreased purchasing power.

Falling inflation does not mean prices will go back down - they are
merely increasing at a slower rate.

` WILL IT AFFECT FOOD PRICES?

Inflation is an overall measure, and so a headline rate decreasing does
not affect all items equally. Food inflation has been running at a
higher rate than overall inflation recently, at 19.1 per cent in March.

Although inflation is expected to fall, food inflation is expected to
remain fairly high. The Bank of England warned that "food price
inflation is likely to fall back more slowly than previously expected".
The Resolution Foundation think-tank has warned food costs will overtake
energy as "the biggest threat to family finances" this summer.

WILL IT AFFECT INTEREST RATES? Inflation can have an effect on whether
the Bank of England chooses to raise its base rate - which determines
the rate at which it lends to banks. The Bank generally raises rates to
combat inflation, with the logic being that if borrowing is more
expensive then people have less money to spend, and so there is less
demand for goods and services.

If inflation falls, economists have said that the Bank is less likely to
increase interest rates again. WHAT DOES INFLATION DROPPING BACK MEAN
FOR SAVINGS RATES? Inflation dropping is good news for savers overall.
There are currently no savings accounts offering interest rates that
match inflation, so although people who have money deposited are gaining
cash as interest, the spending power falls in real terms.

Anna Bowes, of the advice website Savings Champion, says falling
inflation can help to mitigate this, if interest on savings accounts
stay the same.

Ms Bowes believes that interest rates on easy-access accounts may
continue to climb regardless. "At the moment, there's competition
between key providers to offer better rates than one another, so we
could still see some rises" she said.

She said indications are that fixed-rate accounts were near the highest
rate they would be for a while.

A return to the extremely low rates of a couple of years ago - when the
best accounts were offering rates well below 2 per cent - was unlikely
in the short term, she predicted.

WHAT DOES IT MEAN FOR MORTGAGE RATES? Falling inflation will have an
indirect impact on mortgage rates by making another Bank of England
interest rate rise less likely.

Tracker mortgages follow the Bank's base rate exactly and standard
variable rate mortgages generally do so too - so inflation falling means
both products are less likely to become more expensive.

Fixed-rate products are not affected by interest rate rises for those
who are midway through their terms, but rates can have an impact on the
products offered to new customers and those remortgaging.

Nicholas Mendes, a mortgage manager at the broker John Charcol, said
falling inflation over the longer term would have a positive impact on
fixed-rate products.

"It will be relatively small drops for now, but there may be a general
drip-feed of rates coming down, especially if we see inflation continue
to fall throughout the year," he said.

High inflation is bad news for people with pensions and those saving for
them, because like with savings it erodes the spending power of their
pension pot. In that respect, falling inflation is positive.

To give a working example, if you are 67 and plan to retire in a year,
assuming you have a pot of £87,500 in today's money (roughly the average
that someone over 50 will have by their retirement, according to Pension
Bee), then one year later, if inflation runs at 10 per cent and your
investment growth is 5 per cent, your pot would be worth £91,263.
However, in real terms it would have fallen in value to £82,513. If you
want to have the same purchasing power, you would have to contribute an
extra £8,750.

If inflation was 8 per cent, then you would have the same amount but
your pot would be worth the equivalent of £84,263 in today's money -
£1,700 more

Becky O'Connor, of Pension Bee, said people taking out their pensions
also suffer in periods of high inflation because they often take out
more with each withdrawal to cover their costs.

"The risk for them is that they deplete their pot more quickly,
particularly as stock market performance is more lacklustre than it has
been in recent years," said Ms O'Connor (inset).

She added that during periods of high inflation and poor investment
growth, there was a risk of a "double whammy" of people needing to take
more out at a time when the real value of the pot may be going down.

And if people withdraw too early in their fifties or sixties that money
is no longer there for them to invest later in their retirement.

"If at all possible, you should try your best to avoid raiding your
pension too much too soon," said Sir Steve Webb, a partner at the
pensions consultancy LCP.

Load-Date: May 22, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Fresh food prices offer rare respite; INFLATION

Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

May 23, 2023 Tuesday

Print & First Editions

Copyright 2023 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd All Rights Reserved

Section: NEWS; Pg. 6

Length: 612 words

Byline: Shane Wright Senior economics correspondent

Body

Inflation for grocery staples - from peanut butter to pork chops - is
outpacing price rises for almost all other goods in the nation's
shopping trolleys, even pushing up the cost of that morning scrape of
Vegemite.

Analysis by UBS economists shows food inflation is running at 9.6 per
cent, well above the overall inflation rate of 7 per cent, with shelf
prices for Vegemite up 8 per cent, Bega peanut butter up 9 per cent and
some types of yoghurt up 12 per cent.

But there are signs that prices for fresh food may be starting to ease,
albeit remaining at elevated levels.

Cost-of-living pressures on Australians have intensified due to the
combination of soaring inflation and increases in interest rates by the
Reserve Bank which are aimed at bringing it down.

A survey of voter responses to the federal budget, conducted for the
Herald by Resolve Strategic, found that while many people backed
measures such as energy bill subsidies and new Medicare spending, only
31 per cent believed the overall package was good for them and their
households.

The UBS research, which tracks more than 60,000 prices of grocery
products at Coles and Woolworths each month, found fresh food prices had
risen 9.9 per cent in the year to April, while dry grocery goods were up
9.4 per cent.

Prices for breakfast staples such as dairy goods and spreads have
climbed 13 per cent over the past year.

UBS analysts said the country was facing "materially high food
inflation" and it was starting to affect the buying patterns of
consumers, with some switching their branded favourites for cheaper,
no-name or house brand alternatives.

"Dry grocery inflation is likely to remain elevated as pressures on
commodities and the domestic supply chain, including labour, continue in
2023, although the frequency of price rises may reduce," the analysts
found.

"High inflation has driven a shift to private label [goods] at Coles and
Woolworths ... with this trend likely to continue given rising
cost-of-living pressures."

There are some positives, however.

UBS reported that while chicken prices had climbed 10 per cent over the
past year, they had eased 1 per cent over the past month. Pork prices
had dropped 4 per cent since March after a 10 per cent jump from April
last year.

Some supermarkets have already noticed consumers moving towards cheaper
cuts of meat or bulk purchases of certain foods because of high prices.

UBS also noted that fresh food inflation was likely to ease in the
coming months as supply levels of many products started to improve.
Australian beef production was up 15 per cent in the March quarter,
reaching a three-year high.

In this month's budget, the government forecast inflation to ease from 6
per cent at the end of 2022-23 to 3.25 per cent by the end of next
financial year.

Treasurer Jim Chalmers said the government was aiming to get wages
growing to help offset inflation. Wage growth hit an 11-year high of 3.7
per cent in the year to the end of March.

He said inflation was starting to moderate, arguing that the government
had used the budget to help people where it could without increasing
price pressures.

"We know that Australians are under the pump, we know that
cost-of-living pressures are biting, and that's why so much of the
government's focus over the first 12 months has been taking some of the
edge off these cost-of-living pressures without adding to inflation,"
Chalmers said.

But shadow treasurer Angus Taylor accused Chalmers of handing down a
big-spending budget that was adding to inflation pressures.

"Middle Australia is hurting. The treasurer had one job in the budget,
to reduce pressure on inflation, not increase it. The treasurer failed,"
Taylor said.

Load-Date: May 22, 2023

  End of Document

[]

BFGoodrich debuts off-roading tire inflation system

Tire Business

May 8, 2023

Print Version

Copyright 2023 Crain Communications All Rights Reserved

[]

Section: Pg. 19; Vol. 41

Length: 244 words

Dateline: GREENVILLE, S.C.

Body

Michelin North America Inc.'s BFGoodrich Tires brand has launched
ActivAir, a fully integrated tire-inflation system that allows off-road
drivers to adjust tire pressure to exact specifications without leaving
their seat.

ActivAir is designed to allow off-road drivers to conquer road, rock,
sand, mud and more without slowing their momentum. Drivers can select
one of four operating terrains, and the system inflates or deflates the
tires. More experienced drivers can select desired pressures manually.

The technology allows a transfer of all available power to the ground
and maximizes traction, Michelin said.

"Our goal at BFGoodrich is to fuel adventure," said Harold Phillips,
global general manager. "ActivAir is exciting new technology that helps
our off-road community optimize their vehicle performance. This latest
innovation reinforces our focus on safe off-roading."

ActivAir's patented technology was developed and pressure-tested in some
of the most extreme environments, such as Dakar Rally and the Ultra4
Racing circuit, the company said.

ActivAir is a Central Tire Inflation System (CTIS) designed by Michelin
Group subsidiary Teleflow S.A.S. and "includes patented technology with
the latest generation of pneumatic valves, and a display and control
unit."

BFG partnered with Dynatrac Products Inc., a manufacturer of off-road
components, which integrated an air passage in their axle assemblies.
Specific wheels also integrate an air passage, BFG said.

Load-Date: May 11, 2023

  End of Document

[]

IS INFLATION RATE TRULY HIGH?

New Straits Times (Malaysia)

May 18, 2023 Thursday

Copyright 2023 New Straits Times Press (Malaysia) Berhad All Rights
Reserved

Section: BS18; Pg. 20

Length: 475 words

Byline: MUHAMMAD YASIR TAMIZI

Body

BANK Negara Malaysia has increased the Overnight Policy Rate (OPR) to
three per cent from 2.75 per cent after keeping it unchanged multiple
times between November 2022 and April 2023.

While Bank Negaraâ€™s official statement explains its decision, I find
the argument behind this OPR adjustment peculiar.

In economics, the OPR is often seen as a tool to control inflation. When
inflation is high due to increased demand, Bank Negara typically raises
the OPR to slow down demand and prevent excessive inflation. However,
with its recent 25 basis point increase in the OPR, I question whether
our inflation is indeed considered high.

Malaysiaâ€™s inflation rate has been decreasing from four per cent in
November 2022 to 3.4 per cent last month.

Compared to countries like South Korea, Indonesia and Singapore,
Malaysiaâ€™s inflation rate of 3.4 per cent is still lower.

So, if our inflation is gradually decreasing and not considered high
compared to our peers in Asia, why did Bank Negara raise the OPR? This
seems contradictory to the conventional economic view.

Unless Bank Negara adheres to the inflation targeting approach of
maintaining inflation at two per cent, any inflation rate above two per
cent would be considered high, justifying the OPR increase.

However, this perspective is also critically argued by prominent
economist Professor Jomo Kwame Sundaram, who believes the two per cent
target is an arbitrary figure.

We are all aware of the impact of OPR increases on regular customers of
financial institutions.

If we have loans, our monthly payments will increase, reducing our
available cash. While not everyone invests in fixed deposits, most
people are burdened by debts, so the negative impact of this adjustment
is widespread.

If the reason behind the OPR increase is to compete with the United
States Federal Reserve, which has set its interest rate at five per
cent, to attract investors, will our three per cent rate be more
attractive compared to the five per cent rate? This raises questions.

After discussing with my MBA groups on economics and finance, I
summarised the issue of the OPR from the central bankâ€™s perspective.

Bank Negara anticipates higher inflation in the future due to stronger
consumer demand and increased employment, leading to overall higher
spending.

To pre-emptively control inflation resulting from the expected rise in
demand, Bank Negara has raised the OPR. The goal is to mitigate the
potential significant increase in market prices.

In recent Bank Negara posters addressing â€œMisconceptions on the OPRâ€,
it is stated that although inflation is moderating, price pressure
stemming from demand remains high.

Therefore, my question to Bank Negara is: what inflation rate is
considered high?

The writer works as corporate strategy manager, is a pro tempore
secretary at a surau and analyses energy economics

( END )

Load-Date: May 17, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Inflation down, albeit fractionally

The Express Tribune

May 20, 2023 Saturday

Copyright 2023 The Express Tribune All Rights Reserved

Length: 278 words

Body

After weeks of rising trend, the inflationary pressure eased a bit as
the Sensitive Price Indicator (SPI) came down by 0.16% on the weekly
basis, with the annual inflation rate, reaching 45.72%, the Pakistan
Bureau of Statistics (PBS) said on Friday.

According to the PBS weekly inflation report, during the past week, the
prices of 23 essential commodities in the SPI basket of 51 items
increased, while 13 became cheaper and 15 remained stable.

The prices of chicken, tea leaves, eggs, tomatoes, potatoes, curd, dal
mash, dal mung, beef, mutton, unpacked milk, dry milk, basmati rice, and
broken rice have all increased, contributing to the rise in inflation.

On the other hand, the prices of 13 items, onion, garlic, LPG, flour,
vegetable ghee, sugar, firewood, lentil dal, gram dal, mustard oil, and
petroleum products, fell, balancing out the overall inflation rate.
Prices of 21 essential items remained stable.

According to the data, chicken prices rose by 7.51%, jaggery by 2.79%,
tea leaves by 4.53%, tea by 1.09%, eggs by 2.29%, tomatoes by 2.11%,
energy savers by 2.22%, and yogurt by 1.08%.

The onion prices decreased by 9.04%, garlic by 1.76%, sugar by 1.42%,
flour by 1.40%, and lentils by 0.40%. Vegetable ghee prices also dropped
by 0.40%, petrol by 0.11%, diesel by 10.38%, LPG by 3.02%, and firewood
by 0.89%. Mustard oil fell by 0.48%.

Furthermore, according to the statistics, the annual inflation rates for
various income groups also varied. It was 41.67% for those in the income
of up to Rs17,732 per month, 45.37% for the group between Rs17,733 and
Rs22,888 per month, 44.75% for Rs22,889 to Rs29,517 per month, and
47.09% for more than Rs44,176 per month.

Load-Date: May 21, 2023

  End of Document

[]

U.K. Inflation Slowed in April But Remains Stubbornly High

The New York Times

May 25, 2023 Thursday

Late Edition - Final

Copyright 2023 The New York Times Company

Section: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

Length: 716 words

Byline: By Eshe Nelson

Body

The News

Britain's inflation rate dropped to its lowest level in more than a year
in April as the effects of last year's surge in energy prices started to
ease.

Consumer prices in Britain rose 8.7 percent from a year earlier, the
slowest pace since March 2022, the Office for National Statistics said
on Wednesday. It is the first time since last summer that the country's
inflation rate has not been in the double digits. For more than a year,
rising prices in Britain have far outpaced wage growth and forged a deep
cost-of-living crisis.

Core inflation, which strips out energy and food prices and serves as an
indicator for how deeply inflation is embedded in the domestic economy,
rose in April to 6.8 percent, its highest level in 31 years, the
statistics agency said, pushed higher by prices in the services sector.

Why It Matters: Food prices are the main inflation concern.

The slowdown in inflation was less than the Bank of England's forecast,
which had projected 8.4 percent for April. The inflation data has
repeatedly turned out higher than the bank expects, intensifying the
challenge facing policymakers tasked with lowering inflation to the 2
percent target. Since December 2021, the central bank has raised rates
to 4.5 percent from near zero, making loans, especially mortgages, more
expensive.

With energy prices falling, food prices have become the largest
contributor to inflation. In April, food prices rose 19 percent from a
year earlier, just lower than 19.1 percent in March, which was about the
fastest pace since 1977.

Food accounted for more than two percentage points of the overall rate.
The prices of bread, fish and dairy products were among those that
continued to increase last month.

Food inflation in Britain is among the highest in advanced economies,
the statistics agency said on Tuesday. The war in Ukraine and extreme
weather have pushed up food prices, which have been exacerbated by labor
shortages.

On Tuesday, Jeremy Hunt, Britain's chancellor of Exchequer, met with
food producers and Britain's competition regulator about the cost of
food, but didn't announce any plans to lower costs.

Background: An inflation rate still higher than in the U.S. and Europe.

Britain's inflation rate peaked at 11.1 percent in October, the fastest
pace since 1981, driven largely by the energy price shock that hit
Europe. Like the U.S. labor market, Britain's was slow to rebound from
the pandemic, forcing businesses to push up wages to retain workers,
adding another inflationary pressure.

One of the reasons Britain's inflation rate has been slower to decline
than in the United States (where it is 4.9 percent) and the eurozone (7
percent), economists say, is the way energy prices are factored into the
calculation. Britain's energy regulator sets a cap on prices households
pay. That cap is reset every quarter. When energy prices started rising
more than a year ago, this system temporarily insulated households from
that surge. Now that wholesale energy prices have fallen, it is taking
longer for household bills to reflect that change.

On the whole, British households and businesses have shown resilience to
high prices. On Tuesday, the International Monetary Fund said it no
longer expected to Britain to experience a recession this year, an
assessment the Bank of England had also made recently.

But the stronger outlook could make inflationary pressures more
persistent.

''Even as headline inflation is coming down,'' Andrew Bailey, the
governor of the central bank, told lawmakers this month, policymakers
are paying ''particular attention to indicators of inflation
persistence.''

What's Next: A continued decline in inflation is expected, but how
quickly?

The decline in April is the strongest signal that inflation in Britain
has turned a corner. If energy prices continue to drop, then inflation
is expected to keep falling this year.

But the speed of that decline is uncertain. Food prices are expected to
rise more slowly, but economists aren't sure when that will take hold.
Inflation in the services sector means the Bank of England's campaign to
restrain inflation will continue. The government's target of halving
inflation this year -- a 5 percent inflation rate by the end of December
-- is at risk of falling out of reach.

https://www.nytimes.com/2023/05/24/business/uk-inflation-april.html

Graphic

PHOTO: A food stall in London's Borough Market. Food inflation in
Britain is among the highest in advanced economies. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SAM
BUSH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page B4.

Load-Date: May 25, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Inflation dampens recovery of retail sector

The Philippine Star

May 22, 2023 Monday

Copyright 2023 PhilSTAR Daily, Inc. All Rights Reserved

Length: 502 words

Body

While the country's retail sector is in a better position now compared
to the period of strict COVID lockdowns, the elevated inflation is
dampening the sector's recovery, according to an industry group.

On the sidelines of The Economist Impact's Global Anti-Illicit Trade
Summit, Philippine Retailers Association (PRA) chairman Paul Santos told
reporters that most retailers in the country have been enjoying an
increase in sales as lockdown restrictions have been eliminated.

'Now that these restrictions are gone, people have come back to shopping
and a lot of reports suggest that retailers have enjoyed an increase in
sales, but have yet to achieve sales levels matching that in 2019,'
Santos said.

Santos said that while some forecasts suggest that the industry would be
able to match those pre-pandemic figures by year-end, current inflation
issues are dampening the prospects of economic recovery and improvement
in the retailing business.

'The biggest damper in economic recovery now in retail is inflation,'
Santos said, adding that ' people are realizing now that products are
more expensive than what they used to be and they are now prioritizing
what to spend, how much to spend.'

Latest data from the Philippine Statistics Authority (PSA) showed that
headline inflation, or the overall rate of increase in the prices of
consumer goods and services, eased to 6.6 percent in April from 7.6
percent in March.

The latest inflation figure, however, is still higher than the 4.9
percent print in the same period last year

Average inflation for the first four months of the year registered at
7.9 percent.

In April, the Development Budget Coordination Committee (DBCC) increased
its inflation forecast for this year to a range of five to seven percent
from the previous target of 2.5 to 4.5 percent .

This is significantly higher than the 5.8 percent inflation recorded in
2022.

Budget Secretary and DBCC chair Amenah Pangandaman said the adjustment
was made due to the persistent high prices of food, energy, and
transport costs.

Asked how retailers are responding to the threat of inflation to their
businesses, Santos said some may engage in promotions throughout the
year to attract lost business.

He added that for unprofitable stores, some retailers may engage in cost
reduction measures, particularly reducing operating hours and employees.
He stressed, however, that this is the last option.

'At the same time, probably (they can) explore other revenue streams
like improve their online business, expand in previously unserved
markets in the Philippines or probably look for alternate sources of
supply, but with inflation being what it is around the world, maybe
that's not so possible,' Santos said.

In addition, Santos said some retailers may resort to introducing
different packaging sizes to be able to retain price points.

'There are a lot of techniques to at least regain some of the lost
business and maybe grow it somewhat. There are both techniques to
improve sales or to reduce your cost,' Santos said.

Load-Date: May 23, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Food prices rising faster than overall inflation

The Age (Melbourne, Australia)

May 23, 2023 Tuesday

Print & First Editions

Copyright 2023 The Age Company Limited All Rights Reserved

Section: NEWS; Pg. 9

Length: 578 words

Byline: Shane Wright Chief economics correspondent

Body

Inflation for grocery staples from peanut butter to pork chops is
outpacing price rises for almost all other goods, even pushing up the
cost of Australians' morning scrape of Vegemite.

Analysis by UBS economists shows food inflation is running at 9.6 per
cent, well above the overall inflation rate of 7 per cent, with Vegemite
up 8 per cent, Bega peanut butter up 9 per cent and some types of
yoghurt up 12 per cent.

But there are signs prices for fresh food may be starting to ease, while
remaining at an elevated level.

Cost-of-living pressures have intensified due to the combination of
soaring inflation and interest rate rises by the Reserve Bank aimed at
bringing it down. A survey of voters' responses to the federal budget,
conducted for The Age by Resolve Strategic, found that while many people
backed measures such as energy bill subsidies and new Medicare spending,
only 31 per cent believed the overall package was good for them and
their households.

The UBS research, which tracks more than 60,000 prices of grocery
products at Coles and Woolworths every month, found fresh food prices
had climbed 9.9 per cent in the year to April, while dry grocery goods
were up 9.4 per cent.

Prices for breakfast staples such as dairy goods and spreads have risen
13 per cent over the past year.

UBS analysts said the country was facing "materially high food
inflation" and it was starting to affect the buying patterns of
consumers, with some switching to cheaper brands.

"Dry grocery inflation is likely to remain elevated as pressures on
commodities and the domestic supply chain including labour continue in
2023, although the frequency of price rises may reduce," the analysts
found. "High inflation has driven a shift to private label [goods] at
Coles and Woolworths ... with this trend likely to continue given rising
cost-of-living pressures."

There are some positives. UBS reported that while chicken prices had
climbed 10 per cent over the past year, they had eased 1 per cent over
the past month. Pork prices had dropped 4 per cent since March after a
10 per cent jump since April last year. Some supermarkets have already
noticed consumers moving towards cheaper cuts of meat or bulk purchases
of certain foods because of high prices.

UBS also noted fresh food inflation was likely to ease in the coming
months as supply levels of many products started to improve. Australian
beef production was up 15 per cent in the March quarter, reaching a
three-year high.

In this month's budget, the government forecast inflation to ease from 6
per cent at the end of 2022-23 to 3.25 per cent by the end of next
financial year. Treasurer Jim Chalmers said the government was aiming to
get wages growing to help offset inflation. Wage growth hit an 11-year
high of 3.7 per cent in the year to the end of March.

He said inflation was starting to moderate, arguing the government had
used the budget to help people where it could without increasing price
pressures. "We know that Australians are under the pump, we know that
cost of living pressures are biting, and that's why so much of the
government's focus over the first 12 months has been taking some of the
edge off these cost-of-living pressures without adding to inflation," he
said.

But shadow treasurer Angus Taylor accused Chalmers of handing down a
big-spending budget. "Middle Australia is hurting. The treasurer had one
job in the budget: to reduce pressure on inflation, not increase it. The
treasurer failed," he said.

Load-Date: May 22, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Singapore core inflation holds steady at 5% in April

The Straits Times (Singapore)

May 24, 2023 Wednesday

Copyright 2023 SPH Media Holdings Pte. Ltd. All Rights Reserved

Section: BIG STORY

Length: 678 words

Byline: Claire Huang, Singapore core inflation holds steady at 5% in
April

Body

After easing in March, core inflation was unchanged in April, held up by
pricier holiday expenses and airfares.

Analysts said that behind the stubborn inflation is consumer demand that
remains resilient as Singaporeans' purchasing power is high.

Core consumer prices -- which exclude private transport and
accommodation costs, and thus reflect the expenses of Singapore
households more accurately -- rose 5 per cent year on year in April,
unchanged from March.

That was higher than the 4.7 per cent forecast in a Bloomberg survey of
economists. It is still lower than the 5.5 per cent core inflation
recorded in February, which is the highest since November 2008.

April's core inflation rise came as lower price increases in electricity
and gas, food, retail and other goods were offset by higher inflation
for travel-related services.

OCBC Bank chief economist Selena Ling is of the view that it will be
quite hard for core inflation to ease, mainly because the domestic
labour market is still relatively tight and people have spending power.

"While supply chain disruptions have normalised, discretionary items
like travel haven't, as capacity -- including flight capacity -- hasn't
fully returned to pre-Covid-19 levels, and/or businesses are adopting a
'pass on the cumulative cost increases' approach to end consumers to
protect profit margins," she said.

The headline consumer price index, or overall inflation, rose to 5.7 per
cent in April on higher inflation for services and private transport,
after easing to 5.5 per cent in March. This was higher than the 5.5 per
cent prediction in the Bloomberg poll.

Senior economist Alex Holmes of Oxford Economics said the biggest single
driver of the jump in April was a certificate of entitlement
price-driven rise in transport prices that he said "should prove
temporary" and will ease somewhat in May.

Lower global oil prices will also mean lower petrol prices, but the
authorities will still be concerned with steep rises in the costs of
clothes and footwear, as well as recreation services, he noted.

"Together, these suggest that consumer demand is resilient -- something
that will likely have to wane for underlying price pressures to ease,"
Mr Holmes said.

The official projections for the year remain unchanged at between 5.5
per cent and 6.5 per cent for headline inflation, and between 3.5 per
cent and 4.5 per cent for core inflation. These estimates take into
account the goods and services tax hike from 7 per cent to 8 per cent
from Jan 1.

The Monetary Authority of Singapore and Ministry of Trade and Industry
on Tuesday said that upside risks remain, including from fresh shocks to
global commodity prices and more persistent-than-expected tightness in
the domestic labour market.

They added that there are also downside risks such as a
sharper-than-projected downturn in the advanced economies that could
induce a general easing of inflationary pressures.

Ms Ling said the higher base in 2022 will favour some disinflation or
slow the rate of inflation, but added that the pace of easing inflation
is the thing to watch in the second half of the year.

Electricity and gas inflation recorded the steepest decline in April.
Their prices rose by 2.7 per cent, much lower than their 12.2 per cent
surge in March. This was due to smaller increases in both electricity
costs and the gas tariff.

Food inflation dropped to 7.1 per cent in April on the back of slower
price hikes in non-cooked food and prepared meals, while inflation for
retail and other goods eased to 2.9 per cent as prices rose at a slower
pace.

Private transport inflation went up the most, jumping 10.4 per cent in
April from 8.6 per cent in March, as car prices rose more steeply.

Also on the upward trend was services inflation, which rose to 4.3 per
cent in April, given the pick-up in airfares and a faster pace of
increase in holiday expenses.

Accommodation inflation edged up a notch to 4.9 per cent as a smaller
increase in housing rentals was more than offset by a larger rise in the
cost of housing maintenance and repairs.

Graphic

Electricity and gas inflation saw the steepest decline in April. Their
prices rose by 2.7 per cent, down from the 12.2 per cent surge in March.
ST PHOTO: KUA CHEE SIONG

Load-Date: May 23, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Interest rates to top 5% as inflation remains unexpectedly high

i-Independent Print Ltd

May 25, 2023

First Edition

Copyright 2023 Associated Newspapers Ltd. All Rights Reserved

[]

Section: NEWS; Pg. 4

Length: 704 words

Byline: Hugo Gye;Jessie Hewitson ; Callum Mason

Body

Interest rates are set to rise and stay high in a blow to millions of
borrowers after fresh evidence that the fight against inflation is
taking longer than hoped.

Inflation fell to 8.7 per cent last month, according to the Office for
National Statistics (ONS) - below double digits for the first time since
last year, but higher than forecast.

Economists and bankers warned that interest rates would now rise again
as the Bank of England tries to control inflation, while Rishi Sunak and
Jeremy Hunt are increasingly concerned they may not hit their prices
target.

The unexpectedly high rate was driven by stubbornly elevated food
prices, which Government insiders admit there is little they can do to
bring down. Core inflation - which strips out the most volatile prices -
continues to rise, hitting 6.8 per cent in another sign that prices may
prove "sticky".

Government borrowing briefly surged to levels not seen since Liz Truss's
premiership after traders were spooked by the figures.

Inflation is tracking at higher than the Bank of England's most recent
forecast, casting doubt on whether it will halve over the course of this
year as promised by the Prime Minister and Chancellor. The Bank of
England recently revised its inflation forecast from 3.9 per cent by the
end of the year to "around 5 per cent".

Stephen Millard of the National Institute of Economic and Social
Research said: "Once inflation is baked in it's very hard to become
un-baked."

Markets are forecasting that rate rises may now rise from 4.5 per cent
to above 5 per cent later this year - with some suggesting they could
get close to 5.5 per cent.

If those on standard variable rate mortgages were to see a rise of one
percentage point added on to their deal, they could see monthly
repayments increase by more than £1,800 per year, i analysis has found.

Some specialist buy-to-let lenders - Mortgage Works, Paragon and Kent
Reliance - said they would increase rates for fixed-rate mortgages soon
after the inflation figures were announced.

"We are likely to see other bigger lenders follow suit soon," said
Andrew Montlake, managing director at Coreco mortgage brokerage.
Barclays boss CS Venkatakrishnan warned that UK mortgage holders faced a
"huge income shock" with borrowers spending up to 30 per cent of their
income on servicing their mortgages.

Mr Hunt said his inflation target was "absolutely deliverable", but
added: "We have to stick to the plan and we have to recognise that this
is not going to be easy."

He said: "We've been... looking at every element of the supply chain and
what we can do to pass on some of the reductions in costs that are now
beginning to come through to consumers as quickly as we can."

Food price inflation is expected to fall throughout the year and prices
may even go into reverse by the end of 2023.

Explainer What continuing inflation means for your money

If an item cost £100 one year ago, then inflation running at 10 per cent
means it would cost £110 now. If inflation then runs at 8.7 per cent for
the next year, then that item would be £119.57 in 2024.

Food inflation has been running at a higher rate than overall inflation
recently, and is at 19.1 per cent.

The Resolution Foundation thinktank has warned that food costs will
overtake energy costs as "the biggest threat to family finances" this
summer.

If inflation falls, the Bank of

England is less likely to increase interest rates again.

£

However, some experts have suggested another rise is likely because the
Bank regards getting inflation under control as a priority.

value pot one

High inflation is bad news for people with pensions and those saving for
them, because it erodes the spending power of their pension pot.

If you are 67 and plan to retire £82,513 in a year, assuming you have a
pot of £87,500 in today's money - roughly the average an over-50 will
have by retirement, according to Pension Bee - then one year later, if
inflation runs at 10 per cent, and your investment growth is 5 per cent,
your pot would be worth £91,263. But in real terms, it would have fallen
in value, to £82,513.

terms pension after inflation of cent

Callum Mason

£82,513 The real-terms value of a pension pot of £87,500 after one year
of inflation with growth of 5 per cent

Load-Date: May 24, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Eurozone Inflation Accelerates As Expected

CE Noticias Financieras English

May 17, 2023 Wednesday

Copyright 2023 Content Engine, LLC.

All Rights Reserved

Copyright 2023 CE Noticias Financieras All Rights Reserved

Length: 319 words

Body

Eurozone inflation rose as estimated in April on higher food and energy
prices, while core inflation slowed slightly, final data from Eurostat
showed Wednesday.

The harmonized index of consumer prices posted an annual growth of 7.0
percent in April, following a 6.9 percent rise in March. The rate was in
line with the preliminary estimate released on May 2.

By contrast, excluding energy, food, alcohol and tobacco prices, core
inflation slowed slightly to 5.6 percent from 5.7 percent a month ago.
The core rate was also confirmed.

On a monthly basis, the HICP rose 0.6 percent, slightly weaker than the
flash estimate of 0.7 percent.

The European Central Bank had raised its benchmark rates by a
quarter-point early this month after the release of flash inflation
data. Policymakers were of the view that the inflation outlook in the
currency bloc remained "too high for too long."

ECB Chief Christine Lagarde also signaled more rate hikes ahead.
Nonetheless, the bank slowed the pace of policy tightening from a
half-a-point hike in March.

In the EU Spring economic forecast, the European Commission lifted its
inflation forecast and cautioned that the slowdown in core inflation
will be more gradual than previously estimated.

Eurozone inflation was projected at 5.8 percent this year, up from 5.6
percent estimated previously. The forecast for 2024 was raised to 2.8
percent from 2.5 percent.

April inflation was mainly driven higher by food, alcohol and tobacco
prices, which climbed 13.5 percent after a 15.5 percent gain in March,
data showed today.

Energy prices, the major force behind high inflation over the last year,
advanced only 2.4 percent. But this was in contrast to the 0.9 percent
drop in March.

The increase in non-energy industrial goods prices slowed to 6.2 percent
from 6.6 percent. Meanwhile, reflecting rising wages, services inflation
advanced to 5.2 percent 5.1 percent.

Load-Date: May 18, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Inflation downward

CE Noticias Financieras English

May 14, 2023 Sunday

Copyright 2023 Content Engine, LLC.

All Rights Reserved

Copyright 2023 CE Noticias Financieras All Rights Reserved

Length: 428 words

Body

By Edgar F. Garza Ancira

Inflation is the generalized and sustained increase in prices, which is
activated when there is an increase in raw materials, due to the
increase in fuels and which generates an increase in production costs,
which also leads to fewer products in the market and a greater demand to
acquire them.

In Mexico, the 135% increase in the minimum wage so far during the
current administration has helped Mexican families to better cope with
the effects that could affect their well-being.

The current government, through the Bank of Mexico, applied forceful
measures to stabilize economic growth, with a monetary policy of
constant adjustments by raising interest rates to curb the economic
costs that harm society.

Efforts are aimed at easing inflation and at the same time encouraging
investment under the precept that the most important economic decisions
made by individuals and companies are long-term actions. For example,
setting up a factory, starting a business, buying a house or purchasing
a car.

These decisions depend substantially on the degree of confidence about
the future. Achieving low inflation will allow individuals and companies
to make better decisions and invest with full confidence.

The actions taken to contain and strengthen the economy in order to deal
with inflation are proof that this government is concerned with
generating conditions of well-being for the population. The fight to
curb inflation must be maintained, just as a strong peso, such as the
one Mexicans have recently seen, must be preserved.

The good results are beginning to show. According to the National
Consumer Price Index (NCPI), general inflation in Mexico stood at 6.24%
in April. This was due to the Anti-Inflation and Cost Control Package
(PACIC) promoted by the government last year.

Likewise, the actions applied to the energy policy had an influence,
which made it possible to control electricity and fuel prices. Another
positive factor is the appreciation of the peso against the dollar,
making goods and services acquired abroad have lower costs (50% of the
products and services consumed in the country are imported), so having a
strong currency makes prices in foreign currencies more accessible.

Do you think that the current anti-inflationary policy should be
maintained, or do you think that there are other factors that should be
taken into account? I would like to know your opinion!

Edgar F. Garza Ancira

Advisor to multinational companies and consortiums, as well as Founder
of the civil association Dime y Juntos lo Hacemos.

Twitter: @EFGANCIRA

Load-Date: May 15, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Bhutan recorded 5.8% food inflation in July 2022

Business Bhutan

May 20, 2023 Saturday

Copyright 2023 Business Bhutan Private Limited All Rights Reserved

Length: 614 words

Byline: Sangay Rabten

Body

According to the World Bank's (WB) Food Security update of May 4, 2023,
Bhutan recorded the highest food inflation in July 2022, which was 5.8
%.

This was one of the highest food inflation levels in recent times.

From the 47 lower middle-income countries, the food inflation rate of
Bhutan never went up at the level of a price increase of 30% or higher.

The update also shows that the food inflation rate was less than 2% in
February 2023. Bhutan saw the second highest food inflation in August
2022 which was 5.2%.

The highest recorded food inflation was after it climbed up to 5.1% in
June from 3.5% in May 2022. According to Melanie Simone Trost, World
Bank Economist, the figures for the months of March and April could not
be obtained.

The WB has sourced information from the Bhutan Development Update (BDU)
from October 2022, which includes a section on inflation with data up to
June 2022. According to the Economist, the BDU highlights that food
inflation declined from 14.7 percent in FY 20/21 (July 2020 to June
2021) to 4.7 percent in FY21/22 (July 2021 to June 2022) due to
favorable base effects, and lower domestic food inflation.

While imported food inflation remained elevated at 7 percent in FY21/22,
in line with price movements in India (Bhutan's inflation rate co-moves
with that of India with a time lag since about 80 percent of Bhutan's
imports come from India and the BTN is pegged to the INR), domestic food
inflation eased to 2.1 percent yearon-year (y-o-y) in FY21/22, below the
5-year pre-COVID average of 5.3 percent from FY14/15 to FY18/19. The
lower domestic food prices partly reflect government measures to boost
domestic food production.

According to the WB report, the food inflation rate dropped at a price
increase between 5 and 30% starting from September 2022. It was 4.3% in
September 2022, which further dropped to 4.3% in October 2022. In
October 2022, the food inflation rate dropped at price between 2 and 5%.

The month recorded 2.9% and 2.2% in November 2022. Though the inflation
rate dropped further, the months of December 2022 and January 2023
remained constant at 1.5%. With a slight rise, the inflation rate in
February 2023 was 1.9%.

Since the last update on April 20, 2023, the agricultural, cereal, and
export price indices closed 8%, 9%, and 11% lower, respectively.

Domestic food price inflation remains high in almost all low, middle,
and high-income countries.

The 2023 Global Report on Food Crises (GRFC) indicates that 258 million
people in 58 countries or territories for which consensusbased evidence
is available faced crisis or worse levels of acute food insecurity
(Integrated Food Security Phase Classification/Cadre Harmonisé (IPC/CH)
Phase 3+ or equivalent) in 2022. Trade policies are a major source of
risk for global food price stability according to the food security
report.

The International Monetary Fund (IMF) is the core data source for food
inflation, supplemented by Trading Economics.

Real food inflation is calculated as the difference between food
inflation and overall inflation.

A traffic light approach was adopted to show the severity of nominal
food inflation.

Domestic food price inflation (measured as year-on-year change in the
food component of a country's Consumer Price Index (CPI)) remains high.

Information from the latest month between January 2023 and April 2023
for which food price inflation data are available shows high inflation
in almost all low and middle-income countries, with inflation greater
than 5 percent in 64.7 percent of low-income countries, 83.7 percent of
lower-middleincome countries, and 89.0 percent of upper-middleincome
countries with many experiencing double-digit inflation.

Load-Date: May 20, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Households hit hard as food inflation spikes in April

The Daily Telegraph (Australia)

May 23, 2023 Tuesday

Telegraph Edition

Copyright 2023 Nationwide News Pty Limited All Rights Reserved

Section: NEWS; Pg. 4

Length: 317 words

Byline: Eli Greenblat

Body

Hopes that soaring grocery prices were easing to relieve pressure on
household budgets have been dashed after investment bank UBS warned food
inflation reached a new peak of 9.6 per cent in April, as supply chain
and labour pressures continue to cause pain at the checkout for
shoppers.

Much of the pain is coming from fresh produce, with fresh food inflation
spiking to 9.9 per cent in April, although that was down from inflation
of 10.1 per cent in March.

UBS analyst Shaun Cousins described the increasing rate of food
inflation as a "surprise" and inconsistent with recent reports from
heavyweights Woolworths and Coles of food prices coming down.

UBS tracks more than 60,000 food and grocery prices to produce its Price
Tracker monitor and found the cost of a basket of groceries hit a new
peak in April.

In terms of the major supermarket chains, Coles is now ahead of
Woolworths with Coles inflation up 10.5 per cent in April against 9.1
per cent in March, with Woolworths food inflation registering 8.7 per
cent growth in April and 9.7 per cent in March.

However, retail giant Coles has dismissed the UBS food -inflation report
as "not an accurate reflection" of the way the chain calculates
inflation across its aisles and online.

"UBS's sample data does not capture our full range of products and does
not capture changes in customer buying behaviours," a Coles spokeswoman
said.

Meanwhile, in terms of the key supermarket categories, fresh food
inflation was 9.9 per cent in April, down from 10.1 per cent in March
but up against 8.9 per cent in February. Dry grocery inflation rose 9.4
per cent in April against 9 per cent in March. Mr Cousins said the
reason for the grocery inflation could stem from supply chain and labour
costs. "Dry grocery inflation is likely to remain elevated as pressures
on commodities and the domestic supply chain, including labour, continue
in calendar 2023," he said.

Load-Date: May 22, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Inflation rate held up by food price rise

South Wales Echo

May 25, 2023 Thursday

Edition 1, National Edition

Copyright 2023 Reach PLC All Rights Reserved

Section: NEWS; Pg. 17

Length: 406 words

Body

SOARING food prices have seen UK inflation ease back far less than
expected in April, keeping up the pressure on households and raising the
spectre of yet more interest rate rises.

The Office for National Statistics said Consumer Prices Index (CPI)
inflation fell to its lowest level for more than a year last month, at
8.7% down from 10.1% in March, as energy prices stabilised after
sky-high rises a year ago. But it was higher than forecast by
economists, who had pencilled in a drop to 8.2% in April, and more than
the Bank of England had predicted just two weeks ago.

The figures showed food inflation at 19.3%, down only slightly on
March's eye-watering 19.6% and remaining close to the highest rate for
more than 45 years.

Chancellor Jeremy Hunt admitted food prices are "still rising too fast".

He said: "Today's fall inflation... shows we're on the right track but
there is no room for complacency. "It's tough right now but things will
get better," he added.

Economists said another rise in interest rates was looking increasing
likely after inflation had not fallen as fast as hoped.

London's FTSE 100 Index slumped by 1.6% in mid-morning trading yesterday
as the inflation surprise led to bets of more rate rises, compounding
global market fears over a US debt deal.

Rates are at 4.5% because the Bank of England has voted for 12 hikes in
a row to try to curb the cost crisis, and financial markets are pricing
in rates to hit nearly 5.5%.

Samuel Tombs, at Pantheon Macroeconomics, said April's inflation
decrease was "too small a drop for the Monetary Policy Committee (MPC)
to stop hiking in June".

Martin Beck, chief economic adviser to the EY Item Club, said: "Today's
inflation data raises the chances of a further rate rise at the MPC's
meeting next month.

"However, with the MPC set to see another round of labour market and
inflation data released before the June meeting, today's data doesn't
mean a further rate increase next month is a certainty."

The steep fall in CPI, to its lowest level since last March, reflects
last year's initial sky-high rises in power bills dropping out of the
calculation.

Last April, the energy price cap leapt up by 54% to £1,971 after
Russia's invasion of Ukraine sent wholesale gas and electricity prices
rocketing, but this year the Energy Price Guarantee (EPG) has been kept
at £2,500 since last October.

Ofgem is set to confirm today that energy prices will fall sharply for
households in July.

Graphic

Food prices remain close to a 40-year high as the cost-of-living crisis
continues to hit UK households hard

Load-Date: May 25, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Britain’s Inflation Slowed in April but Remains Stubbornly High

The New York Times

May 24, 2023 Wednesday 22:35 EST

Copyright 2023 The New York Times Company All Rights Reserved

Section: BUSINESS

Length: 744 words

Byline: Eshe Nelson

Highlight: Consumer prices rose 8.7% from a year earlier, the slowest
pace since March 2022.

Body

The News

Britain’s inflation rate dropped to its lowest level in more than a year
in April as the effects of last year’s surge in energy prices started to
ease.

Consumer prices in Britain rose 8.7 percent from a year earlier, the
slowest pace since March 2022, the Office for National Statistics said
on Wednesday. It is the first time since last summer that the country’s
inflation rate has not been in the double digits. For more than a year,
rising prices in Britain have far outpaced wage growth and forged a deep
cost-of-living crisis.

Core inflation, which strips out energy and food prices and serves as an
indicator for how deeply inflation is embedded in the domestic economy,
rose in April to 6.8 percent, its highest level in 31 years, the
statistics agency said, pushed higher by prices in the services sector.

Why It Matters: Food prices are the main inflation concern.

The slowdown in inflation was less than the Bank of England’s forecast,
which had projected 8.4 percent for April. The inflation data has
repeatedly turned out higher than the bank expects, intensifying the
challenge facing policymakers tasked with lowering inflation to the 2
percent target. Since December 2021, the central bank has raised rates
to 4.5 percent from near zero, making loans, especially mortgages, more
expensive.

With energy prices falling, food prices have become the largest
contributor to inflation. In April, food prices rose 19 percent from a
year earlier, just lower than 19.1 percent in March, which was about the
fastest pace since 1977.

Food accounted for more than two percentage points of the overall rate.
The prices of bread, fish and dairy products were among those that
continued to increase last month.

Food inflation in Britain is among the highest in advanced economies,
the statistics agency said on Tuesday. The war in Ukraine and extreme
weather have pushed up food prices, which have been exacerbated by labor
shortages.

On Tuesday, Jeremy Hunt, Britain’s chancellor of Exchequer, met with
food producers and Britain’s competition regulator about the cost of
food, but didn’t announce any plans to lower costs.

Background: An inflation rate still higher than in the U.S. and Europe.

Britain’s inflation rate peaked at 11.1 percent in October, the fastest
pace since 1981, driven largely by the energy price shock that hit
Europe. Like the U.S. labor market, Britain’s was slow to rebound from
the pandemic, forcing businesses to push up wages to retain workers,
adding another inflationary pressure.

One of the reasons Britain’s inflation rate has been slower to decline
than in the United States (where it is 4.9 percent) and the eurozone (7
percent), economists say, is the way energy prices are factored into the
calculation. Britain’s energy regulator sets a cap on prices households
pay. That cap is reset every quarter. When energy prices started rising
more than a year ago, this system temporarily insulated households from
that surge. Now that wholesale energy prices have fallen, it is taking
longer for household bills to reflect that change.

On the whole, British households and businesses have shown resilience to
high prices. On Tuesday, the International Monetary Fund said it no
longer expected to Britain to experience a recession this year, an
assessment the Bank of England had also made recently.

But the stronger outlook could make inflationary pressures more
persistent.

“Even as headline inflation is coming down,” Andrew Bailey, the governor
of the central bank, told lawmakers this month, policymakers are paying
“particular attention to indicators of inflation persistence.”

What’s Next: A continued decline in inflation is expected, but how
quickly?

The decline in April is the strongest signal that inflation in Britain
has turned a corner. If energy prices continue to drop, then inflation
is expected to keep falling this year.

But the speed of that decline is uncertain. Food prices are expected to
rise more slowly, but economists aren’t sure when that will take hold.
Inflation in the services sector means the Bank of England’s campaign to
restrain inflation will continue. The government’s target of halving
inflation this year — a 5 percent inflation rate by the end of December
— is at risk of falling out of reach.

PHOTO: A food stall in London’s Borough Market. Food inflation in
Britain is among the highest in advanced economies. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SAM
BUSH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) This article appeared in print on page B4.

Load-Date: May 24, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Brazilian economists downgrade inflation forecast for 2023

CE Noticias Financieras English

May 22, 2023 Monday

Copyright 2023 Content Engine, LLC.

All Rights Reserved

Copyright 2023 CE Noticias Financieras All Rights Reserved

Length: 202 words

Body

Private economists in Brazil lowered their forecasts for the country' s
inflation rate and now expect it to stand at 5.80% by the end of the
year, according to a new survey released by the Central Bank.

The new average forecast is down from 6.03% the previous week and could
ease the concerns of monetary policymakers, who have highlighted rising
inflation expectations as one of the reasons for the country's high
interest rates.

Finance Minister Fernando Haddad told the press after the release of the
survey that market forecasts were now "in line" with the projections of
the Ministry's Economic Policy Secretariat.

Expectations

In the minutes of its May meeting, at which Brazil's benchmark interest
rate remained at 13.75%, the central bank expressed concern about
inflation expectations, stating that it continued to "assess that
unanchored expectations raise the cost of bringing inflation back to
target."

The South American country has an inflation target of 3.25% for 2023,
which will be lowered to 3% in 2024.

According to the survey, private economists expect the official IPCA
inflation index to stand at 4.13% by the end of next year, slightly
below the previous week's 4.15%, although still above target.

Load-Date: May 23, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Firms decline to use blended inflation

Business Weekly

May 22, 2023 Monday

Copyright 2023 Zimpapers LTD 1980 All Rights Reserved

Length: 568 words

Body

Recent published financials have shown that adoption of the blended
consumer price index (CPI) as the official inflation benchmark may not
be appropriate for financial reporting purposes.

This comes as selected companies chose to resort to historical
accounting only after failing to comply with the international
accounting standard that pertains to hyperinflation reporting.

Government in March this year formally moved to adopt a currency
weighted consumer price index as the official measure of inflation to
reflect the dual currency structure.

Monetary authorities perceive that domestic expenditure is now 75
percent foreign currency denominated and as such blended inflation will
aptly reference the trajectory of the economy.

However, analysts believe blended inflation figures might not present
the correct outlook since the local currency has been under pressure as
depicted by the sharp depreciation and the widening gap between the
black-market premium and the official exchange rate which is trailing
way behind.

Delta Corporation, decided against using the blended inflation figures
from the Zimbabwe National Agency (Zimstat) to determine its financial
results for the year ended March 31, 2023 saying they were not
indicative of market trends.

Financial director, Alex Makamure, during an analysts briefing recently
said the blended CPI was making it difficult to comply with
international accounting standards.

'We had the issue of IAS 29 and our very good government decided on
March 3 that they will only publish something called blended CPI
(Consumer Price Index).

'As you see the numbers, I wasn't sure if they were presented in
Zimbabwean dollars because I saw some reports that said 'we do not read
those numbers, inflation adjusted, neither do we trust your cost
mantras,' he told analysts.

Investment analyst, Rufaro Hozheri, told Business Weekly that blended
CPI might not be the right inflation measurement instrument reflective
of what is happening on the ground.

'Remember some of these companies, especially in the retail space have
their own in-house CPI which they track, and they are better off using
that to make informed decisions than the blended CPI numbers.

'They would rather get an adverse audit opinion but report numbers that
are more representative of actual operations,' he said.

First Capital Bank said it has had to temporarily resort to historical
accounting only after failing to comply with the international
accounting standard that pertains to hyperinflation reporting, due to
Zimbabwe's recent adoption of a blended CPI.

Listed counters have since 2019 persistently received adverse audit
opinions on their financials due to conflicts between standards and
legislation.

'In Zimbabwe this year, we are operating at a blended CPI rate, which
presents a challenge in the production of inflation accounting...' the
Bank said.

Zimre Holdings said the adoption of the blended CPI statistics may not
be appropriate for financial reporting purposes and the full impact
shall be assessed and published in the group's half year interim
reporting.

Enock Rukarwa, also an investment analyst, said financial reporting in
hyperinflationary economics is no longer feasible due to unavailability
of relevant consumer price indices.

He said in as much the blended inflation numbers capture obtaining
dynamics in the inflationary trends, it creates challenges in converting
USD numbers to ZWL.

Load-Date: May 22, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Warren Buffett says this 'best investment' will protect anyone against
inflation

The Morning Call

May 8, 2023 Monday

FIRST Edition

Copyright 2023 Capital Gazette Communications, Inc. All Rights Reserved

Section: MAIN; A; Pg. 9

Length: 286 words

Byline: Marcel Schwantes Inc.

Highlight: Adrian825/Dreamstime

Body

The economy and small businesses alike continue to take a beating from
inflation. But Berkshire Hathaway CEO Warren Buffett says you can
protect against its effects with this familiar, long-held philosophy:
"The best thing you can do is to be exceptionally good at something.
People are going to give you some of what they produce in exchange for
what you deliver."

The legendary investor said this while speaking at the 2022 Berkshire
Hathaway annual shareholders meeting. Buffett emphasized that sharpening
your skills is a great way to keep inflation at bay and stay atop in
your chosen field. Since skills are inflation proof, Buffett says, your
skill or talent will remain in demand during periods of inflation.

"Whatever abilities you have can't be taken away from you. They can't be
inflated away from you. The best investment by far is anything that
develops yourself, and it's not taxed at all," Buffett says.

The key to Buffett's counsel is not chasing after skills or talents in
areas that don't serve you well. As he has alluded to in the past, you
don't need to put out extraordinary effort to achieve extraordinary
results. You need to do the ordinary, everyday things exceptionally
well.

One of the most ordinary skills every businessperson should continuously
develop - inflation or not - is one that Buffett champions frequently:
communication. In a video posted on LinkedIn, Buffett says, "If you
can't communicate, it's like winking at a girl in the dark - nothing
happens. You can have all the brainpower in the world, but you have to
be able to transmit it. And the transmission is communication."

Buffett has stated that investing in developing your communication
skills can "improve your value by 50%."

Load-Date: May 8, 2023

  End of Document

[]

BOK to focus on taming inflation, chief says

ASEAN Tribune

May 22, 2023 Monday

Copyright 2023 ASEAN Tribune All Rights Reserved

Length: 270 words

Body

22 May 2023 (Yonhap News Agency) South Korea's central bank will focus
on taming inflation going forward as the current level is higher than
its target, its chief said Monday.

In a parliamentary session, Bank of Korea (BOK) Gov. Rhee Chang-yong
said the current price levels are higher than the central bank's target,
and it will implement its monetary policy with a focus on inflation.

The central bank's midterm inflation target is 2 percent.

South Korea's consumer prices grew at the slowest pace in more than a
year in April in the latest signal that inflation has receded.

Consumer prices, a key gauge of inflation, rose 3.7 percent last month
from a year earlier, compared with a 4.2 percent on-year rise in March,
marking the first time in 14 months that on-year inflation growth fell
below 4 percent.

"April inflation fell to 3.7 percent, and the downward trend will
continue in the future," Rhee said adding that South Korea is doing well
in terms of stable price levels compared to other advanced countries.

The BOK held its key rate steady at 3.5 percent last month after a rate
freeze in February as inflation appears to be easing and concerns are
rising over an economic slowdown.

The central bank is scheduled to hold its monetary policy meeting later
this week and may face the daunting task of whether to freeze the rate
again or raise it.

It is expected to stand pat again amid easing inflation and a slowdown
in economic growth.

The BOK chief also said the currency rates are another concerns due to
widening interest rate gaps with the United States, but the won-dollar
rate is showing signs of stabilization.

Load-Date: May 23, 2023

  End of Document

[]

The dangers of changing inflation targets

CE Noticias Financieras English

May 19, 2023 Friday

Copyright 2023 Content Engine, LLC.

All Rights Reserved

Copyright 2023 CE Noticias Financieras All Rights Reserved

Length: 1089 words

Body

LONDON - As the biggest wave of monetary tightening in four decades puts
a brake on the world's largest economies, more and more analysts are
asking whether central banks should not raise inflation targets above
the current 2%. Is it worth sacrificing growth to gain just an extra
inch in the fight against inflation?

But as Brazil's recent economic difficulties show, the dilemma between
sustaining GDP growth and fighting inflation cannot be dismissed so
easily. For, in the end, raising central bank targets and accepting a
slight increase in price levels will most likely lead to higher
inflation and a weaker economy at the same time.

In a context of pressing climate and security challenges, it is tempting
to relax price stability targets. For most of the past fifteen years,
developed economies have struggled to generate inflation; the US Federal
Reserve and other central banks often missed their 2% target. But the
covid?19 pandemic, escalating tensions between the US and China and
Russia's invasion of Ukraine have led to persistent constraints in
supply chains, radically changing the inflationary outlook.

At the same time, the changing nature of globalization and the
transition to clean energy are causing companies to rethink the
management of the supply of goods and labor. This phenomenon, coupled
with the unforeseen shocks that may accompany it, can be expected to
have inflationary effects. But in view of the threat posed by climate
change and rising geopolitical tensions, it could be argued that
tolerating a little more inflation is the cost of achieving a just green
transition.

That there is growing recognition that the current confluence of shocks
demands significant changes to the functioning of economies is salutary.
But the current debate around inflation and growth often overlooks the
fragility of business and consumer confidence.

The case of Brazil highlights the dangers of trying to make adjustments
(however small) to the anchors of price stability. Shortly after
President Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva gave public signals that in his view
Brazil's inflation target was too low and that high interest rates were
stifling the economy, the central bank's inflation expectations were
raised to 5.8% by 2023 and 3.6% by 2024. The institution (which did not
gain formal operational independence until 2021) has been gradually
lowering its inflation target from 4.5% in 2018 to 3.25% for this year
and 3% by 2024.

In response to the new inflation expectations, markets were quick to
adjust their forecasts regarding a rapid and forceful rate cut, and
quotes began to reflect the assumption of a slower and more gradual
tapering schedule. In addition, at the long end of the government bond
yield curve, the risk premium demanded by investors to hold long-term
Brazilian debt increased significantly. The real interest rate surpassed
the 6% level that prevailed until the October presidential election,
which was already considered exorbitant and unsustainable at that time.

Brazil's well-known history of hyperinflation and extreme inequality
underscores the urgency of achieving price stability. But the pervasive
threat to debt sustainability posed by Brazil's distortionary fiscal
regime (with high levels of spending and taxation) is often overlooked.
After the pandemic, public debt levels reached a twenty-year high,
leading to a significant increase in the cost of financing the Brazilian
deficit, despite the recovery in growth.

It is true that developed economies are not the same as Brazil, but
officials in rich countries should not assume that they will find it
easier to persuade their citizens that higher inflation targets can be
achieved with little additional cost. Brazil's experience offers three
valuable lessons for determining whether developed country central banks
should raise their inflation targets.

First, inflation targeting policy is essentially a matter of confidence.
If governments are perceived to be raising inflation targets in order to
sustain higher levels of spending (whether or not that spending is
necessary), there will be no way to avoid a generalized increase in
financial costs. On that assumption, re-anchoring inflation expectations
at a higher level will almost certainly cause a recession (which may be
necessary to reduce inflation below the new target and keep it at that
level long enough for expectations to stabilize).

Second, it would be imprudent to change inflation targets without
implementing fiscal consolidation measures. If the reason for adopting a
new target is to provide fiscal policy space, people are unlikely to
believe that the new target will be permanent. The fear of the
unsustainability of fiscal policy has always been central to Brazil's
inflation problem. Moreover, the adoption of a Brazilian-style regime of
monetary tightening and fiscal laxity will limit private sector
investment opportunities and hinder job creation. It may also lead to a
significant increase in interest rate volatility.

Third, inflation targeting regimes have limitations that become more
evident when supply-side uncertainties increase since, faced with any
given shock, the central bank is no more able than other actors to
decide whether it will be transitory or persistent. In a low inflation
environment, officials can wait until they know whether such a supply
shock (of which there have not been many examples in recent decades)
will naturally dissipate. But in a world where inflation is already
above target and the risk of additional shocks is high, policymakers do
not have time on their side.

Because they already had experience in fighting persistent supply-side
shocks, Brazilian officials understood better than most central banks in
developed economies the threat implicit in the current disruptions to
supply chains. So in anticipation of possible "second-round effects,"
they raised interest rates in advance and sharply. The strategy was
effective until the new government proposed to change the inflation
target.

In theory, the benefits of raising the inflation target may outweigh the
disadvantages. But it would be a mistake to assume that a precise
adjustment of the target is a simple task. After all, consumers and
businesses have no reason to believe that the target will only be
changed once. The Brazilian experience shows that the cost of
introducing changes to inflation targets, however small, can outweigh
the benefits.

*The author is a global strategist at PIMCO, a visiting senior research
fellow at the London School of Economics.

Load-Date: May 20, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Inflation may peak at 37.27% in May

The Express Tribune

May 23, 2023 Tuesday

Copyright 2023 The Express Tribune All Rights Reserved

Length: 655 words

Body

Pakistan's inflation is expected to rise by 1.07% on a month-on-month
basis and reach a peak of 37.27% in May, driven by a persistent uptrend
in food prices.

In a report titled 'May-2023 CPI expected to peak at 37%, base affect to
kick in from June', JS Global, Head of Research, Amreen Soorani
explained that the significant increase is primarily due to higher food
prices, which account for 30% of the Consumer Price Index (CPI) basket.

Soorani projected that food inflation would register a year-on-year
increase of 47.99% this month, with a sequential rise of 0.81% on a
month-on-month basis. This marks a slowdown from the recent average of
4.5% monthly growth observed over the past four months. The average
inflation reading for the first 11 months of the fiscal year 2023 is
estimated to be 29.03%.

However, 'the recent decline in petroleum, oil, and lubricant (POL)
prices is not expected to be reflected in May-2023's readings,' she
said, noting that if the decline is included, the estimates would
decrease by 10 basis points to 37.17% in May.

On the core front, non-food and non-energy (NFNE) inflation is expected
to clock in at 30%, another record-high reading, with a month-on-month
increase of 2.7%.

From June 2023 onwards, the inflation reading is expected to ease,
paving the way for a potential reduction in the central bank's interest
rate in the second half of the next fiscal year 2024 (Jan-June 2024).
Soorani projected that after peaking in May 2023, the year-on-year trend
is expected to soften due to the base effect from Jun-2023.

'As we expect the FY23 CPI to average at 29%, an average month-on-month
trend of 90 basis points is expected to bring the FY24 CPI to 20%. On
the core front, we anticipate NFNE pace to decline from 20.4%
year-on-year in FY23 to 14.8% year-on-year in FY24,' she added. This is
also expected to pave the way for monetary easing in the second half of
the next fiscal year 2024.

Experts have highlighted two major reasons for Pakistan's record-high
inflation reading of 36.4% in April: the sharp devaluation of the
Pakistani rupee against the US dollar and the global rise in commodity
prices. Despite the State Bank of Pakistan (SBP)'s implementation of
contractionary monetary policies to curb inflation, inflationary
expectations have not subsided.

Last month, a report by the Economic Adviser Wing of the finance
ministry stated that, 'Although the SBP is enacting [a] contractionary
monetary policy, inflationary expectations are not settling down.' The
increased interest rates, reaching a record 21%, were intended to
contain spiraling inflation but have added a significant fiscal cost in
the form of higher debt servicing. This, in turn, has fueled more
inflation through borrowings.

In February, a senior economist from Moody's Analytics expressed that
inflation in Pakistan could average 33% in the first half of 2023 before
trending lower, and an IMF bailout alone is insufficient to put the
economy back on track.

'Our view is that an IMF bailout alone isn't going to be enough to get
the economy back on track. What the economy really needs is persistent
and sound economic management,' Senior Economist Katrina Ell said in an
interview. 'There's still an inevitably tough journey ahead. We're
expecting fiscal and monetary austerity to continue well into 2024,' she
said, adding that Moody's expects economic growth for the 2023 calendar
year of around 2.1%.

There is a likelihood of further monetary tightening in Pakistan to
stabilise inflation and address weaknesses in the foreign exchange
market. However, it is recognised that these measures alone will not be
a complete solution to the country's economic challenges.

Experts have warned that if the looming default on foreign debt
repayment occurs, the inflation reading may spike to hyperinflation.
Moody's Investors Service has stated that without an IMF loan program,
the country may face default after June 2023.

Load-Date: May 24, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Rocketing food prices see UK inflation fall less than hoped

The Independent (United Kingdom)

May 24, 2023 Wednesday 10:22 AM GMT

Copyright 2023 Independent Digital News and Media Limited All Rights
Reserved

[]

Section: BUSINESS; Version:1

Length: 629 words

Byline: Holly Williams

Highlight: The ONS said inflation fell to 8.7% last month – its lowest
level for more than a year – but economists had forecast a drop to 8.2%.

Body

Soaring food prices have seen UK inflation ease back far less than
expected in April, keeping up the pressure on households and raising the
spectre of yet more interest rate rises.

The Office for National Statistics said Consumer Prices Index (CPI)
inflation fell to its lowest level for more than a year last month, at
8.7% down from 10.1% in March, as energy prices stabilised after
sky-high rises a year ago.

But it was higher than forecast by economists, who had pencilled in a
drop to 8.2% in April, and more than the Bank of England had predicted
just two weeks ago.

The figures showed food inflation at 19.3%, down only slightly on
March’s eye-watering 19.6% and remaining close to the highest rate for
more than 45 years.

Today’s fall in inflation to 8.7% -the lowest rate in over a year -shows
we're on the right track, but there is no room for complacency. The IMF
said yesterday we have acted decisively to tame inflation, but there is
still work to be done -especially on food prices.(1/3)— Jeremy Hunt
(@Jeremy_Hunt) May 24, 2023

Chancellor Jeremy Hunt admitted food prices are “still rising too fast”.

He said: “Today’s fall in inflation… shows we’re on the right track but
there is no room for complacency.”

“It’s tough right now but things will get better,” he added.

Economists said another rise in interest rates was looking increasing
likely after inflation had not fallen as fast as hoped.

London’s FTSE 100 Index slumped by 1.6% in mid-morning trading on
Wednesday as the inflation surprise led to bets of more rate rises,
compounding global market fears over a US debt deal.

Rates are at 4.5% because the Bank of England has voted for 12
successive hikes in a row to try and curb the cost crisis and financial
markets are pricing in rates to hit nearly 5.5% after the latest
inflation shock.

Samuel Tombs at Pantheon Macroeconomics said April’s inflation decrease
was “too small a drop for the Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) to stop
hiking in June”.

Martin Beck, chief economic adviser to the EY Item Club , said: “Today’s
inflation data raises the chances of a further rate rise at the MPC’s
meeting next month.

“However, with the MPC set to see another round of labour market and
inflation data released before the June meeting, today’s data doesn’t
mean a further rate increase next month is a certainty.”

The steep fall in CPI, to its lowest level since last March, reflects
last year’s initial sky-high rises in power bills dropping out of the
calculation.

Last April, the energy price cap leapt up by 54% to £1,971 after
Russia’s invasion of Ukraine sent wholesale gas and electricity prices
rocketing, but this year the Energy Price Guarantee (EPG) has been kept
at £2,500 since last October.

Ofgem is set to confirm on Thursday that energy prices will fall sharply
for households in July, when the current EPG comes to an end.

Consultancy firm Cornwall Insight predicts the price cap will fall by
£446 to £2,054 a year, based on falling wholesale energy prices.

But inflation has been stubbornly higher than predicted, raising doubts
over the Government’s ability to meet its target to halve inflation by
the year end.

The Bank of England’s top bosses admitted to MPs on Tuesday it made
errors in its forecasting of UK inflation, but governor Andrew Bailey
insisted inflation has “turned the corner”.

Speaking to the Wall Street Journal CEO Council summit on Wednesday, Mr
Hunt said the Government’s inflation target is “still absolutely
deliverable but we have to stick to the plan”.

“We have to strain every sinew to make sure we deliver it,” he said.

The latest data also showed the CPI measure of inflation including
housing costs fell to 7.8% in April from 8.9% in March, while the Retail
Prices Index slowed to 11.4% from 13.5% in March.

Load-Date: May 24, 2023

  End of Document

[]

INFLATION MAY PROVE STICKIER THAN EXPECTED

The Swazi Observer

May 24, 2023 Wednesday

Copyright 2023 Swazi Observer (Pty) Ltd Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
All Rights Reserved

[]

Length: 540 words

Byline: SIFISO NHLABATSI | 2023-05-24

Body

By SIFISO NHLABATSI | 2023-05-24

Central Bank Governor Dr Phil Mnisi says inflation may prove stickier
than expected, prompting further monetary tightening than currently
anticipated.

The governor, in his Annual Monetary Policy Statement themed 'Ensuring
Price and Financial Stability under a Volatile Economic Environment'
said in pursuit of its mandate of formulating and implementing sound
monetary policy to ensure price and financial stability, the CBE pursued
a tightening monetary policy stance over the review period.

He said cumulatively, the bank raised the discount rate by 325 basis
points (bps) for the financial year, from four per cent in April 2022 to
7.25 per cent in April 2023.

"The interest rate hike is in line with the tightening regional and
global monetary conditions as most economies across the globe grapple
with elevated inflation which is way above target range," Mnisi stated.

He said according to the IMF's World Economic Outlook (WEO) published in
April 2023, global growth was projected to slow down to 3.4 per cent in
2022 from an estimated 6.0 per cent in 2021 and further down to 2.8 in
2023. He said this was 0.1 percentage points lower for 2023 than in the
January 2022 WEO Update.

Mnisi explained that the downward revision highlights the direct impact
of the Russia-Ukraine war on the global economy and related spill overs.

"In 2024, global growth is forecasted to slightly recover to three per
cent and expected to slow down reaching zero per cent over the medium
term. Risks to the outlook are largely to the downside as there is high
uncertainty around the short to medium-term outlook as the global
economy adjusts to the shocks of 2020-2022 and the recent financial
sector turmoil," Mnisi stated.

He said there was a risk that the recent banking system turbulence will
result in faster tightening of global financial conditions which would
further deteriorate business and consumer confidence.

He further explained that additional downside risks include sharper
contractionary effects that are expected from the synchronous central
bank rate hikes amid historically high private and public debt levels.

In addition, he said inflation may prove stickier than expected,
prompting further monetary tightening than currently anticipated. Mnisi
said other adverse risks include a faltering in China's post-COVID-19
recovery and an escalation of the war in Ukraine.

On the domestic front, Mnisi said inflation averaged 4.80 per cent in
2022 compared to 3.73 per cent the previous year.

"The upsurge in consumer prices was a result of increases observed in
the CPI for goods which accelerated to average 9.4 per cent in the
period under review, compared to 6.7 per cent in the previous period
mainly driven by increases in the prices for 'non-durable' goods," the
governor stated.

He further pointed out that the Bank expects inflation to remain
moderate in the short to medium term.

He went on to disclose that current forecast for inflation for 2023 and
2024 are 5.56 and 5.29 per cent, respectively.

The governor said risks to inflation include elevated oil prices, a
weaker exchange rate, administered prices and geopolitical tensions
which may cause further supply chain disruptions.

Swazi Observer (Pty) Ltd

Load-Date: May 24, 2023

  End of Document

[]

UK says inflation up 1.2% in April, 8.7% yoy

NAFTA (English)

May 24, 2023 Wednesday

Copyright 2023 Content Engine, LLC.

All Rights Reserved

Copyright 2023 Content Engine LLC All Rights Reserved

Length: 203 words

Byline: sentidocomun

Body

U.K. inflation advanced 1.2% on a monthly basis in April, the largest
increase in the last six months, the British Office for National
Statistics reported.

On an annual comparison, U.K. inflation advanced at a rate of 8.7% vs.
April 2022, its most modest advance in 13 months or since it was at 7%
during March last year.

"Electricity and gas prices contributed 1.42 percentage points to the
fall in annual inflation in April, as last April's increase was removed
from the annual comparison, but this component still contributed 1.01
percentage points to annual inflation," the Office for National
Statistics said, in a statement.

The price performance exceeded the expectations of analysts surveyed by
the financial portal Investing.com, who expected a monthly advance of
0.8% in April inflation and a year-on-year increase of 8.3%.

On the other hand, the underlying price index, or that measure that
disregards changes in volatile products such as food or energy, rose
1.3% monthly in April and grew 6.8% at an annual rate - in the latter
case, its highest advance since March 1992.

Analysts surveyed by Investing expected a monthly growth of 0.8% in core
inflation and an annual advance of 6.2%.

Load-Date: May 25, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Inflation Drops To 41.2%

Daily Guide Network

May 11, 2023 Thursday

Copyright 2023 Daily Guide All Rights Reserved

Length: 389 words

Body

The country's year-on-year inflation has once again dropped to 41.2 per
cent in April from the 45 per cent recorded in March 2023.

Data from the Ghana Statistical Service (GSS) indicated this is the
fourth time inflation has dropped extending the disinflation process
since January 2023.

The GSS in its latest figures revealed that both food inflation and
non-food inflation dipped last month.

According to the figures, food inflation went down to 48.7 per cent in
April 2023, from 50.8 per cent in March 2023, whilst non-food-inflation
declined to 35.4 per cent in April 2023, from 40.6 per cent in March
2023.

Also, inflation for locally produced items stood at 38.2 per cent,
whereas inflation for imported items was 43.1 per cent.

Five groups including Housing, Water, Electricity, Gas and Other Fuels
(59.0%); Furnishing, Household Equipment and Routine Household
Maintenance (56.3%); Food and Non-Alcoholic Beverages ((48.7%); Personal
Care, Social Protections and Miscellaneous Goods and Services (48.5%)
and Transport (42.5%) recorded inflation higher than the national
average,

Also, eight food items recorded inflation higher than overall food
inflation.

For food inflation, Tea and Related Products (82.3%); Cereals and Cereal
Products (62.9%); Milk and Diary Products (61.8%); Fish and Other Sea
Foods (58.3%); Sugar, Confectionary and Desserts (56.7%); Fruit and
Vegetable Juices (55.2%); Oil and Fats (53.2%) and Water (49.6%)
recorded year-on-year inflation higher than the overall food inflation.

The month-on-month inflation stood at 2.4 per cent in April 2023. Food
and Alcoholic Beverage however recorded the highest inflation of 4.3 per
cent, whilst non-food inflation was 0.7 per cent.

The Volta region continued to record the lowest inflation among the
regions. It recorded 28.0 per cent year-on-year inflation in April 2023.

On the other hand, the Western North region registered the highest
inflation of 64.0 per cent

Ghana's populous regions - Ashanti and Greater Accra recorded inflation
of 31.3 per cent and 39.1 per cent respectively.

This slump in inflation could compel the Bank of Ghana to keep its
policy rate unchanged at 29.5 per cent when the Monetary Policy
Committee begins its 112th Meeting on May 17, 2023. However, the cost of
credit still remains expensive as average lending rates hover around 35
per cent.

Load-Date: May 12, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Inflation falls to lowest level in over a year

The Independent (United Kingdom)

May 24, 2023 Wednesday 8:26 AM GMT

Copyright 2023 Independent Digital News and Media Limited All Rights
Reserved

[]

Section: HOME NEWS,UK; Version:1

Length: 289 words

Byline: Matt Mathers

Highlight: Drop in inflation driven by falling enery prices, ONS says

Body

Inflation has fallen back to its lowest level in over a year at 8.7 per
cent but the cost of food remains sky-high and rising at a near record
pace.

The Office for National Statistics said on Tuesday inflation fell to 8.7
per cent in April -down from 10.1 per cent in the previous month.

The fall in overall inflation, or rising prices, will provide some light
relief for households across the country struggling with the cost of
living squeeze.

But concerns remain about the runaway cost of everyday grocery items

ONS chief economist Grant Fitzner said: "The rate of inflation fell
notably as the large energy price rises seen last year were not repeated
this April, but was offset partially by increases in the cost of
second-hand cars and cigarettes.

"However, prices in general remain substantially higher than they were
this time last year, with annual food price inflation near historic
highs."

Shadow chancellor Rachel Reeves said: "As bills keep surging, families
will be worried food prices and the cost of other essentials are still
increasing.

"They will be asking why this Tory government still refuses to properly
tackle this cost of living crisis, and why they won’t bring in a proper
windfall tax on the enormous profits of oil and gas giants.

"The reality is that never have people paid so much in taxes and got so
little in return.”

Chancellor Jeremy Hunt said: "Although it is positive that it is now in
single digits, food prices are still rising too fast.

"So as well as helping families with around £3,000 of cost-of-living
support this year and last, we must stick resolutely to the plan to get
inflation down."

The figures showed food CPI inflation at 19.3 per cent, down only
slightly on March’s eye-watering 19.6 per cent.

Load-Date: May 24, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Taylor: Blame Labor on inflation

Townsville Bulletin (Australia)

May 18, 2023 Thursday

Townsville Edition

Copyright 2023 Nationwide News Pty Limited All Rights Reserved

Section: NATION; Pg. 20

Length: 235 words

Byline: Catie McLeod

Body

Angus Taylor has declared inflation is now being caused by
decision-making in Canberra rather than Russia's invasion of Ukraine.

Mr Taylor said took aim at what he called Labor's "big spending"
approach as he responded to the Albanese government's second budget in
his address to the National Press Club on Wednesday.

Speaking just over a week after Treasurer Jim Chalmers unveiled this
year's federal budget, Mr Taylor claimed Australians would pay more than
$300bn in tax over the next five years under Labor.

Mr Taylor said the Coalition had made it clear it would not have
delivered the same budget, which he said at best failed to address
inflation and at worst added "fuel to the fire".

"No one wins from a big-spending government in an inflation crisis," he
said. Mr Taylor also sought to shift the blame for Australia's ongoing
inflation problem onto the Albanese government rather than unavoidable
global factors such as Russia's invasion of Ukraine, which wreaked havoc
on international supply chains and energy markets.

"Inflation is coming from Canberra now, not from the Kremlin, and so
it's Canberra's problem to solve," he said.

"Our priority would be to bring down inflation and set up Australia for
growth in the medium-term through lower taxes and productivity-enhancing
policies." Mr Chalmers typically blames global economic "headwinds" for
Australia's economic position and consequent fiscal policy.

Load-Date: May 17, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Inflation expectations at 1-yr low in May

ASEAN Tribune

May 23, 2023 Tuesday

Copyright 2023 ASEAN Tribune All Rights Reserved

Length: 267 words

Body

23 May 2023 (Yonhap News Agency) South Korea's inflation expectations
fell to the lowest in a year in May on a slide in prices of
petrochemical goods, a central bank survey showed Tuesday.

Ordinary people expected consumer prices to rise 3.7 percent for the
year ahead, down 0.2 percentage point from what was surveyed a month
earlier, according to the poll conducted by the Bank of Korea (BOK).

The reading marks the lowest since May last year, when the comparable
figure was 3.3 percent, the central bank said.

The downturn came as the prices of oil-related goods continued to fall,
according to the central bank.

The figures are closely watched, as their upward move could cause
businesses to raise prices and people to ask for pay raises, thereby
resulting in more upward pressure on inflation going forward.

South Korea's consumer prices grew at the slowest pace in more than a
year in April in the latest signal that inflation has receded.

Consumer prices, a key gauge of inflation, rose 3.7 percent last month
from a year earlier, compared with a 4.2 percent on-year rise in March,
marking the first time in 14 months that the on-year inflation growth
fell below 4 percent.

The BOK held its key rate steady at 3.5 percent last month after a rate
freeze in February, as inflation appears to be easing and concerns are
rising over an economic slowdown.

The central bank is scheduled to hold its monetary policy meeting later
this week and may face the daunting task of whether to freeze the rate
again or raise it.

It is expected to stand pat again amid easing inflation and a slowdown
in economic growth.

Load-Date: May 23, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Stubborn core inflation shows we have a long slog ahead

i-Independent Print Ltd

May 25, 2023

First Edition

Copyright 2023 Associated Newspapers Ltd. All Rights Reserved

[]

Section: NEWS; Pg. 5

Length: 806 words

Byline: Hamish McRae

Body

Inflation is coming down, but not as fast as most of us expected - or
hoped. So it is quite possible that the peak in the Bank of England's
interest rate will end up at 5 per cent, another 0.5 percentage points
up from where we are now.

With the consumer prices index (CPI) up 8.7 per cent in the year to
April, UK inflation is still above that of the eurozone and the US. And
while the Government's preferred measure, the CPIH (the H standing for
owner-occupiers' housing costs), was slightly lower at 7.8 per cent, the
old retail price index, still the benchmark for many commercial
transactions, was 11.4 per cent.

There are a string of questions - quite aside from the key one for many
homebuyers, which is how much further interest rates may rise - and the
difficulty is to break them down into some order of priority.

It is quite clear that the general downward trend of inflation will
continue, though maybe with the odd hiccup. What is less clear is where
it will settle. For example, the Bank of England forecasts that it will
be down to just over 5 per cent by the end of the year.

But some private forecasters, including the Centre for Economic and
Business Research, think it could be somewhat lower, about 4 per cent.

Just about all economists, including those at the Bank, predict
inflation will be at or below the target rate of 2 per cent by the end
of next year.

This leads to the question: if inflation is coming down anyway, why is
there all this talk of interest rates having to go even higher? This is
not a matter only for the UK. Just this week the head of the German
Bundesbank, Joachim Nagel, said that the European Central Bank would
have to increase its rates "several" more times to control inflation.

And while investors in the US think the Federal Reserve will pause its
push to raise rates when it meets next month, they are already over 5
per cent, so quite a bit higher than here or in Europe.

The best answer to the "why do interest rates have to go yet higher"
question is that the central banks are frightened. They have been very
wrong in underplaying the danger of inflation, as Andrew Bailey,
governor of the Bank of England, acknowledged to the Treasury Select
Committee on Tuesday that there were "very big lessons" that they had to
learn about dealing with inflation.

That fear is pushing banks to push up interest rates, even at the cost
of slowing the economy and perhaps increasing unemployment.

The trouble with this argument is that the lags between a change in
rates and the impact on the economy are long - perhaps 18 months - and
putting up rates now is not going to help cut the price of food in the
shops, one of the principal drivers of inflation.

So what the Bank of England and the Fed and the ECB hope to do is not so
much to get inflation down in the next few months, for they are
reasonably sure that this will happen. Their worry is that once the
present shocks are past, inflation will start to climb again and stick,
not at the 2 per cent target but around 3 per cent or 4 per cent, maybe
even higher. Why?

Look behind these CPI numbers at what is called "core" inflation. Core
inflation is a concept used on both sides of the Atlantic and the idea
is to take out all the shocks that have hit us from things like food and
energy and see what the underlying rate would be.

They are rather important to us in our daily lives. You can always put
off buying new clothes for a few months; you can't put off eating or
washing. But it makes sense, when trying to think ahead, because food
and energy prices will come down (the oil price already has) and that
could lull the policy-makers into a false sense that inflation is
beaten.

Core inflation isn't coming down.

Those ONS numbers show that it was running at 6.8 per cent, up from 6.2
per cent, and the highest since March 1992. The increase in earnings
over the past year is running at 6.7 per cent without bonuses. That is
well below the rate of inflation but if it continues at this rate it
will push up employers' costs by close to 5 per cent, allowing for some
increase in productivity.

If costs go up by 5 per cent, companies will have to put up their prices
by something like that amount. And that would make it very hard to bring
inflation down to the 2 per cent target in any sustainable way.

This isn't a disaster. Inflation is coming down and will continue to do
so. Unemployment remains very low and demand for labour still pretty
strong. Quite soon wages will start to run above inflation, at least for
most people, and we will be able to claw back some of the loss in living
standards.

The IMF has upgraded its growth forecasts for the UK. But while we
should welcome the fall in inflation, we should be aware that there is a
long and difficult slog ahead.

Banks fear once the present shocks are past, inflation will start to
climb again

Load-Date: May 24, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Inflation stubborn and interest rates will have to rise

i-Independent Print Ltd

May 25, 2023

First Edition

Copyright 2023 Associated Newspapers Ltd. All Rights Reserved

[]

Section: NEWS; TEASERS; Pg. 3

Length: 223 words

Byline: Jessie Hewitson

Body

Last week, my youngest child sneaked some Lego into his bath, which
resulted in a brick getting through the drain and wedging itself in a
pipe.

Initially, we tried to fish it out, but doing so only caused it to go in
further. After days of having to shower in ankledeep water we had to
accept the inevitable: a hefty plumber call-out charge.

This is an accurate, if unlikely, metaphor for our economy. Inflation is
the Lego brick, and it's jammed in the pipes of the financial system.

We are now going to have to part with a lot of money before the Bank of
England can yank it out.

Did Andrew Bailey miss his chance to get the brick while it was still
close to the drain? Almost certainly yes.

It is likely that Bailey and his colleagues simply aren't match fit,
since inflation has been broadly stable for decades, but yesterday
brought a sharp reminder of the consequences of a delayed response.

That core inflation - inflation minus seasonal trends and energy costs,
the figure the Bank watches most closely when deciding how worried to be
about the situation - went up not down has suggested the price increases
have become embedded.

It is hard to confidently predict much at the moment, but it is clear
that while inflation may be down, it's far from out. Interest rates will
have to go high before inflation can go low.

Twitter: @jessiehewitson

Load-Date: May 24, 2023

  End of Document

[]

How inflation affects Saudi families

The New Nation (Bangladesh)

May 16, 2023 Tuesday

Copyright 2023 The New Nation All Rights Reserved

Length: 863 words

Dateline: Dhaka

Body

Dhaka, May 16 -- Inflation has become a big issue the world over since
the start of the pandemic. No one really knows what causes inflation
despite what you might read in economic textbooks. Most economists agree
that the generous support policies unleashed during the pandemic to help
citizens and businesses weather the shock resulted in a huge demand for
goods that could not be met as easily because it was coupled with supply
chain bottlenecks: China Inc was closed for business.

The debate continues about whether inflation is transitory or here to
stay, with famous economists taking both sides. One reason economists
often give about why inflation stays boils down to people's
expectations: If people expect inflation, then they will bargain harder
for pay raises that match or exceed the expected inflation rate, thereby
creating a vicious cycle.

Those that expected inflation to evaporate quickly were disappointed.
Just as the pandemic receded, the war in Ukraine took over as an
inflation driver and resulted in rapidly rising food and fuel prices.

The World Bank's MENA Economic Monitor for April 2023 highlights the
danger of fallout from the fight against inflation. As central banks
raise rates to curb inflation, tightening financial conditions are
slowing the global economy. The report argues that even if the spike in
inflation turns out to be short-lived it will still leave behind
long-term development challenges that warrant action from policymakers
in the short and long term.

Increased food prices, in particular, will hit the poor the hardest
since they spend a larger proportion of their income on food. In the
poorest countries, food insecurity can lead to starvation, but even in
middle-income countries temporary increases in food prices can cause
long-term, irreversible damage, especially to children due to
malnutrition and stunting. That is why it is key for policymakers to put
in place temporary programs to protect vulnerable households.

In this context, the Saudi Center for Opinion Polling (SCOP) decided to
survey if Saudis were worried about inflation. The survey showed that
despite inflation running at 3 per cent (the government has fixed the
prices of fuel and many essential items) and the economy growing close
to 9 per cent, Saudis remain concerned.

The survey showed that nine out of ten people recognized the increase in
food prices, but half did not feel any drastic price increases in
medical services, drugs, insurance, or communication and internet
services. Their perceptions did not match reality. Why? Perhaps because
they had to dip into their pockets every day to put food on the table
while items such as insurance are less frequently purchased.

Saudis also recognize that their country is not a major producer of
agricultural products and that it imports around 85 per cent of its
food, the prices of which had already started to rise during the
pandemic and have become even more expensive lately.

When asked about the causes of inflation, respondents pointed at many
different causes such as global circumstances, traders and middlemen,
VAT, and COVID-19 as the main culprits. This implies that Saudis think
that inflation will not be fixed by a single country, especially not
their own country. It will need cooperation among the international
community. There is no evidence to suggest that traders are making
larger margins or that this is a cause of inflation, but these
perceptions are common in many countries which can in turn hinder the
development of the private sector.

Overall, inflation has not changed the consumer habits of the majority
in Saudi Arabia: 62 per cent of respondents confirmed that they did not
stop buying a product or service due to higher prices. However, some
Saudis are having to cut back their spending to make ends meet. Luxuries
are the first to go, 15 per cent of respondents admitted to cutting back
on eating out in restaurants and cafes. As in many countries, Saudis are
also starting to take other measures such as looking for additional
income sources mentioned by 6 per cent and seeking cheaper brands (5 per
cent) and shopping in outlets to make ends meet.

When it comes to future expectations, the survey revealed that Saudi
society does not see inflation as a permanent and unsolvable problem.
Half of those surveyed believe that inflation will normalize within
three years, and 60 per cent believe that happier days are coming. One
can easily conclude from the perspective of these results that inflation
is one of the leading concerns of Saudi society, but Saudis are not
panicked nor do they worry a great deal about it. Those that believe
that expectations drive inflation should be reassured by these findings.

(The writer is is the World Bank Group lead economist for the GCC. Based
in Kuwait between 2018-2020, Ismail now based in Riyadh. Ismail has 30
years of experience in private sector development and public sector
reform issues in Europe, MENA,

Africa and Asia).

Published by HT Digital Content Services with permission from The New
Nation. For any query with respect to this article or any other content
requirement, please contact Editor at contentservices@htlive.com

Load-Date: May 18, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Why is it so important to keep inflation under control?; Analysis

The Age (Melbourne, Australia)

May 24, 2023 Wednesday

Print & First Editions

Copyright 2023 The Age Company Limited All Rights Reserved

Section: MONEY; Pg. 1

Length: 459 words

Byline: Paul Benson

Body

The Reserve Bank surprised most of us by raising interest rates once
again this month. With inflation data trending down, the expectation was
that settings would be left to do their work. Clearly, the RBA felt
inflation wasn't coming down quickly enough.

For those feeling the hit of higher mortgage repayments, it's reasonable
to question why inflation matters so much. Is beating it really worth
the pain?

In a nutshell, inflation is prices going up. Some inflation is good, but
too much is bad.

Low levels of inflation drive economic activity. If you expected the
cost to build a home would be lower a year or two from now, it would be
rational to put off building your home. And if enough people do the
same, the economy grinds to a halt.

High inflation is something economic managers work hard to avoid. You
might have seen the photos from 1920s Germany of people with
wheelbarrows of cash heading out to buy a loaf of bread. Argentina is
experiencing something similar right now.

Inflation makes your money worth less, so what it can buy is reduced.

Most countries have a central bank with a mandate from their government
that specifically provides an inflation target. The Reserve Bank of
Australia's target is to have inflation running at between 2 and 3 per
cent, per year.

The primary instrument central banks have for managing inflation is
interest rates. By forcing households and businesses to pay higher
interest on debt, money is sucked out of the economy.

Consumption is reduced, and the heat comes out of the economy, easing
price rises and therefore inflation. But slowing down the economy
without bringing it to a complete halt is about as easy as the Titanic
trying to steer around an iceberg. The potential for recession looms
large.

The challenge with inflation is that it can become a spiral. If prices
go up, employees need pay rises so they can continue to afford goods and
services. If the employer grants them a pay rise, the employer needs to
put their prices up again to recover the extra wages expense. This
circles back to the employees needing another pay rise, and on and on we
go.

Even worse is when you have expectations built-in that inflation will be
at a high level for a long period of time. Imagine you run a business
that builds freeways. When you quote, you know the work is going to take
several years to deliver.

If you have an expectation that inflation will be persistently high, you
will factor that into your pricing, meaning your customer, in this case
taxpayers, will pay a higher price than in a low inflation world. In
this way, inflation can get "baked in" to the economy, and once that
happens, it's very difficult to unwind.

Paul Benson is a certified financial planner and host of the Financial
Autonomy podcast.

Load-Date: May 23, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Retreating inflation seen to push local stocks zooming

The Philippine Star

May 23, 2023 Tuesday

Copyright 2023 PhilSTAR Daily, Inc. All Rights Reserved

Length: 327 words

Body

The Philippine Stock Exchange is projected to turn a corner if inflation
falls back within the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas' target of 2-4% during
the final quarter of the year.

That was the assessment gleaned from First Metro Investment Corp. and UA
and P Capital Markets Research's 'Market Call' released Tuesday.

'PSEi may continue to move ahead of equities markets in advanced
economies due to domestic inflation moving back within BSP targets
(2-4%) by Q4, albeit mitigated by the mild underweighting by MSCI
rebalancing,' the report read.

Headline inflation slowed to 6.6% in April, softer compared to the 7.6%
recorded in March, as consumer price growth decelerated for the third
straight month.

Brutal inflation was fueled in part by supply chain bottlenecks, a weak
peso, and the domestic economy's reopening towards the end of 2022,
fueling a resurgence of consumer spending.

The PSE index proved to be the second-best performing bourse among its
ASEAN neighbors, improving by 1.9% on a monthly basis. The report
credited local investors for driving the uptrend, which saw the local
stock exchange trading between 6,450 and 6,700.

The caveat is that investors will need to check whether economic and
financial conditions brighten at home and abroad.

On the economic front, analysts at FMIC and UA and P expects the gross
domestic product to be tempered by inflation.

Their projection, which sees painful inflation impairing consumer
spending, pegged the Philippine economy churning growth at 5.8%
year-on-year in the second quarter.

They see an upside for some sectors, however. The construction sector is
expected to rake in gains amid infrastructure projects while the
transport, storage, accommodation and food services sector will score
the gains from the explosion in consumer spending.

'With these gaining further traction in H2 and sharply lower inflation
rates to average 3.3% by Q4, we see a return to above-6% full-year
growth in 2023,' experts said.

Load-Date: May 24, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Rocketing food prices see UK inflation ease back less than hoped

The Courier

May 25, 2023 Thursday

Edition 1, National Edition

Copyright 2023 DC Thomson Co Ltd All Rights Reserved

[]

Section: NEWS; Pg. 32

Length: 547 words

Byline: HOLLY WILLIAMS

Body

Soaring food prices have seen UK inflation fall far less than expected
in April, keeping up the pressure on households and raising the spectre
of yet more interest rate rises.

The Office for National Statistics said Consumer Prices Index (CPI)
inflation fell to its lowest level for more than a year last month, at
8.7% down from 10.1% in March, as energy prices stabilised after skyhigh
rises a year ago.

But it was higher than forecast by economists, who had pencilled in a
drop to 8.2% in April, and more than the Bank of England had predicted
just two weeks ago.

The figures showed food inflation at 19.3%, down only slightly on
March's eye-watering 19.6% and remaining close to the highest rate for
more than 45 years.

Chancellor Jeremy Hunt admitted food prices are "still rising too fast".

He said: "Today's fall in inflation... shows we're on the right track
but there is no room for complacency."

"It's tough right now but things will get better," he added.

Economists said another rise in interest rates was looking increasing
likely after inflation had not fallen as fast as hoped.

London's FTSE 100 index slumped by 1.6% in midmorning trading yesterday
as the inflation surprise led to bets of more rate rises, compounding
global market fears over a US debt deal.

Rates are at 4.5% because the Bank of England has voted for 12
successive hikes in a row to try to curb the cost crisis and financial
markets are pricing in rates to hit nearly 5.5% after the latest
inflation shock.

Samuel Tombs at Pantheon Macroeconomics said April's inflation decrease
was "too small a drop for the Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) to stop
hiking in June".

Martin Beck, chief economic adviser to the EY Item Club, said: "Today's
inflation data raises the chances of a further rate rise at the MPC's
meeting next month. However, with the MPC set to see another round of
labour market and inflation data released before the June meeting,
today's data doesn't mean a further rate increase next month is a
certainty."

The steep fall in CPI, to its lowest level since last March, reflects
last year's initial sky-high rises in power bills dropping out of the
calculation.

Last April, the energy price cap leapt by 54% to £1,971 after Russia's
invasion of Ukraine sent wholesale gas and electricity prices rocketing,
but this year the Energy Price Guarantee (EPG) has been kept at £2,500
since last October. Ofgem is set to confirm today that energy prices
will fall sharply for households in July, when the current EPG comes to
an end.

But inflation has been stubbornly higher than predicted, raising doubts
over the government's ability to meet its target to halve inflation by
the year end.

The Bank of England's top bosses admitted to MPs on Tuesday it made
errors in its forecasting of UK inflation, but governor Andrew Bailey
insisted inflation has "turned the corner".

Speaking to the Wall

Street Journal CEO Council summit yesterday, Mr Hunt said the
government's inflation target is "still absolutely deliverable but we
have to stick to the plan".

"We have to strain every sinew to make sure we deliver it," he said.

The latest data also showed the CPI measure of inflation including
housing costs fell to 7.8% in April from 8.9% in March, while the Retail
Prices Index slowed to 11.4% from 13.5% in March.

Graphic

HOUSEHOLD PRESSURE: Chancellor Jeremy Hunt admitted food prices are
'still rising too fast'.

Load-Date: May 25, 2023

  End of Document

[]

'Tu idhar udhar...': Priyanka Gandhi targets BJP, PM Modi over
corruption, inflation

DNA

May 8, 2023 Monday

Copyright 2023 Diligent Media Corporation Ltd., DNA (Daily News &
Analysis), distributed by Contify.com All Rights Reserved

Length: 253 words

Byline: DNA Web Team

Body

Taking a dig at the BJP, Priyanka said that the BJP should understand
that the common people want to discuss the issues which affect them.

Just days ahead of Karnataka Assembly election, Congress general
secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Sunday (May 7) slammed the BJP and
Prime Minister Narendra Modi for trying to divert the attention of
public from real issues.

Addressing a rally in Karnataka, Priyanka Gandhi said, "Since the
election campaign has started, all of us from Congress have been asking
BJP leaders and PM Modi to come to the matter at hand."

"I saw today morning, that for the first time during election campaign,
PM Modi spoke on inflation, development and on the issue that public
face. But when evening came and I checked the news again, I saw that
once again he had gone off the tracks. Once again he left the talks of
inflations, development, and employment and started talking about some
international conspiracy," remarked the senior Congress leader.

Taking a dig at the BJP, Priyanka said that the saffron party should
understand that the common people want to discuss the issues which
affect them.

"Tu idhar udhar ki baat na kar, yeh bata kaafila kyun loota; Mujhe
rehjano se gila nahi, teri rehbari ka sawaal hai. (Don't talk of
unrelated matters, tell me why did the loot happen; I am not angry with
the dacoits, but I have complaints with your leadership)," Priyanka
noted.

The Assembly election in Karnataka will be held on May 10 and the
counting of votes is scheduled to take place on May 13.

Load-Date: May 8, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Rodolfo Navarrete Vargas / Peso Appreciation and Inflation

CE Noticias Financieras English

May 22, 2023 Monday

Copyright 2023 Content Engine, LLC.

All Rights Reserved

Copyright 2023 CE Noticias Financieras All Rights Reserved

Length: 630 words

Body

At least from a theoretical point of view, peso appreciation should
favor lower inflation. Empirically, however, this effect will depend on
a set of factors that, while delaying its transmission, should
eventually equal the effect of the depreciation on inflation. An
appreciation of the exchange rate should contribute to lower inflation
through a reduction in the price of imports. One way is direct, through
a fall in the prices of imported goods that enter directly into the
consumption basket that forms part of the National Consumer Price Index
(NCPI), and the other, indirect, through lower prices of raw materials
and inputs used by companies to produce their goods.

In the first case, lower prices in pesos for imported goods should raise
their demand and lower the demand for domestic substitutes. This, in
turn, should propagate price declines, although not across the board. In
the second case, the reduction in imported raw material costs should be
passed on to the price of final products, depending on the degree of
competition observed by producers and the phase of the cycle in which
the economy finds itself. These adjustment lags have led to consider
that the pass-through of exchange rate movements on inflation is
asymmetric. It is fast and strong in the case of exchange rate
depreciation and slow and weak in the case of appreciation. However,
everything seems to indicate that this is true only in the very short
term and for macroeconomic data. In the medium term, or at least in the
period in which monetary policy operates, it seems that the cumulative
effects of a depreciation and an appreciation of the peso on inflation
are the same, although of opposite sign. In this sense, it could be
thought that the adjustment function of inflation in the face of peso
depreciation would be concave downward, while that of appreciation, in
absolute terms, would be convex. It is likely that peso appreciation
will initially have small effects on the reduction of final product
prices, precisely because of the rigidities that impede pass-through. As
a result, substantial increases in firms' profit margins should be
expected, which will gradually give way as rigidities and competition
are gradually eliminated, leading to a further decline in inflation.
Some Mexican retailers, for example, have already begun to demand
discounts from suppliers, forcing them to lower their increased margins.
The Bank of Mexico has calculated that a 1.0% depreciation of the peso
increases inflation by 3 hundredths of a percentage point, while other
studies put it closer to 10 hundredths of a percentage point or more. If
the above statement is correct, that in the horizon in which monetary
policy operates, companies will lower prices in a manner equivalent to
the increase in a depreciation, and taking into account that so far this
year the peso has appreciated close to 13% with respect to the average
exchange rate during 2022, inflation should fall in that period by
between half and one and a half percentage points in cumulative terms,
which is not negligible. This would suggest that it is likely that
inflation in Mexico could come down perhaps a little faster than
previously thought, which could have important implications for the
future of monetary policy. As consumers increase their preference for
imported products, which happen to be cheaper than domestic substitutes,
the decline in inflation will become more generalized. However, we
should not lose sight of the fact that they face the dilemma of either
reducing their consumption, as a result of the increase in the cost of
credit caused by the restrictive monetary policy, or increasing it,
given the gradual decrease in the prices of imported products. Economic
Advisor Vector

Load-Date: May 23, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Rise and inflation uncertainty

CE Noticias Financieras English

May 21, 2023 Sunday

Copyright 2023 Content Engine, LLC.

All Rights Reserved

Copyright 2023 CE Noticias Financieras All Rights Reserved

Length: 543 words

Body

According to INDEC, inflation accelerated in April and reached 8.4%
monthly. Thus, the inter-annual rate was 108.8%. In the first four
months of the year, prices accumulated an increase of 32%. The increases
were mainly seen in Food and Beverages, which presented an increase of
10.1%. Other divisions with increases were: Clothing and footwear
(+10.8%), and Restaurants and Hotels (+9.9%). And the divisions with
smaller increases were: Education (+5%) and Alcoholic beverages and
tobacco (+3.8%). Seasonal CPI increased 12.6%; Core CPI, 8.4%; while
Regulated CPI increased 4.9%.

Considering the run-up to the PASO 2019, the previous monthly inflation
rate had been 2.2% and reached 5.9%. Already in October 2020, with
inflation at 1.9% contained by the quarantine, the exchange run
accelerated it to 3.8%. The 2022 run, which implied a change in the head
of the Ministry, increased the monthly rate from 5.1% to 7.4%.

Within the May outlook, we are unlikely to see a rate below 8%. On the
one hand, there is a methodological issue to consider. Since the CPI is
measured with a monthly average of prices, the acceleration of inflation
in April brings with it an inflationary drag for May.

(Foto: EFE)

The foreign exchange run in the parallel markets, together with the
acceleration of the official crawling-peg, took place in the third and
fourth week of last month. On the other hand, high-frequency data show a
strong acceleration of inflation during the first week of May. In
annualized terms, these jumps mean going from an annual rate of 80% to
113%, and then to 150%.

It should be noted that the distortion of relative prices is increasing
and affecting the price system. The price of clothing rose 10.8% and
alcoholic beverages rose only 3.8%. While the item with the highest
increase had an increase of 126.6%, communication services are up 81%
annually. With a scenario such as the current one, real wages have very
little chance of recovering.

During the first quarter of 2023, according to INDEC, there was no
reversal of the fall in the purchasing power of wages. This is unlikely
to change, with a much more inflationary second quarter.

At the same time, the positive indicators of industrial and construction
activity are blurred because the rebound of both sectors is linked to a
temporary foreign currency supply factor. Moreover, in January and
February, import payments were almost 20% below the same values of last
year. In March, the flow of payments normalized, but this phenomenon is
transitory. In view of the failure of the soybean dollar 3, the import
faucet is being closed again. It is to be expected that the next
activity data will again suffer as a consequence of the return of import
supply problems.

The permanent acceleration of inflation does not allow for a sustained
recovery of aggregate demand. Possibly, the fall of the agricultural
sector will also blur the positive data of industry and construction. In
short, even with a possible IMF disbursement in exchange for a discreet
devaluation to bring the general commercial exchange rate to levels
similar to those of the soybean dollar, one might wonder how or in what
dynamics it would enter an electoral year.

(*) Federico Pablo Vacalebre is a professor at Universidad del CEMA.

Load-Date: May 22, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Inflation eases slowly

CE Noticias Financieras English

May 11, 2023 Thursday

Copyright 2023 Content Engine, LLC.

All Rights Reserved

Copyright 2023 CE Noticias Financieras All Rights Reserved

Length: 511 words

Body

The most recent inflation data for the United States and Mexico were
released this week, showing a slight but continued improvement.

In the case of the United States, prices in April increased 0.4 percent
from March, bringing inflation in annual terms down from 5.0 percent to
4.9 percent. Such figure was in line with market expectations and
represents the lowest increase in annual terms since April 2021.

In the case of the core component, the increase was 0.4 percent,
bringing core inflation in annual terms down from 5.6 to 5.5 percent,
also in line with the consensus of market expectations.

Headline inflation in annual terms has been falling for 10 consecutive
months after reaching a peak of 9.1% in June of last year, while core
inflation resumed its downward trend after rising in March.

However, for the second consecutive month, core inflation was above
headline inflation.

This is largely explained by the fact that the most important source of
relief comes from a decrease in energy prices, which fell 5.1%
(highlighting a 12% drop in gasoline prices), while services prices
remain under pressure, registering an increase of 6.8% (highlighting an
11% increase in transportation prices and an 8.1% increase in housing
services).

However, the equivalent rent indicator decelerated with respect to
previous months, presenting its lowest monthly reading in more than a
year.

The expectation is that pressure in this sector will continue to
moderate as the housing market continues to weaken as a result of rising
interest rates and tighter lending by the regional bank segment.

Based on this expectation and a more favorable basis for comparison
(remember that the inflation peak was recorded in June of last year),
the market consensus is anticipating a decrease in annual inflation from
4.9% in April to a range of 3.0-3.5% at the end of June.

In this columnist's opinion, the downward trajectory in inflation could
be slower than what the market is discounting.

In the case of Mexico, prices in April decreased 0.02% (slightly less
than expected by consensus expectations). With this monthly figure,
accumulated inflation in the last 12 months decreased from 6.85% in
March to 6.25% in April, registering its third consecutive month of
decline.

Core inflation in April was 0.39 percent (slightly below consensus),
bringing core inflation in annual terms down from 8.09 to 7.67 percent.

Although inflation could accelerate its downward trajectory in the
coming months, as annual comparison bases become more favorable, price
dynamics in the services sector, which in turn reflect higher labor
costs, maintain important pressures.

The data will be crucial for Banxico's monetary policy decision on May
18, as market expectations have been changing in recent weeks.

After the last monetary policy announcement, on March 30, market
expectations pointed to an additional quarter-point hike on May 18 to
leave the funding rate at a new high of 11.50 percent.

However, in the last few days the market has begun to reinforce its bets
that Banxico will leave the rate unchanged.

Load-Date: May 12, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Julio Velarde: "Inflation is falling more slowly than expected".

CE Noticias Financieras English

May 24, 2023 Wednesday

Copyright 2023 Content Engine, LLC.

All Rights Reserved

Copyright 2023 CE Noticias Financieras All Rights Reserved

Length: 634 words

Body

Last week, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) warned that the main
macroeconomic problem facing Peru is inflation, as it is very high
compared to the target range of the Central Reserve Bank (BCR).

In fact, annual inflation up to April was slightly below 8% (7.97%),
when the BCR's target range is between 1% and 3% per year.

In its last monetary program of May 11, in which it maintained the
benchmark interest rate at 7.75% for the fourth consecutive month, the
BCR projected that inflation will return to the target range in the last
quarter of the year due to the moderation of the effect of international
food and energy prices, the reversion of supply shocks in the local
agricultural sector and a reduction in inflation expectations for the
rest of the year.

However, now the view is different and the return to the target range
would take longer. According to the president of the BCR, Julio Velarde,
inflation is coming down more slowly than expected. "It will reach the
target later than expected," he said during his presentation to
investors in New York at the "Peru Forum: A New Perspective on the
Peruvian Economy and International Trade",

While Velarde reiterated that inflation will come down anyway, one of
the indicators that are affected by remaining at high levels, is the
BCR's benchmark interest rate, which since August 2018 rose
consecutively, for 18 months, reaching 7.75% last January.

The president of the issuing institute specified that if inflation rises
again the monetary entity will not hesitate to raise the interest rate
again, although for now he considers that the level it has is
sufficient.

The IMF has recommended avoiding a "premature end" to the interest rate
tightening that was deployed between 2021 and 2022.

The former Minister of Economy and Finance, Alfredo Thorne, and the head
of Macroconsult's Information System, Eduardo Jimenez, agreed with Julio
Velarde that inflation will not reach the BCR's target range by the end
of this year.

While Thorne estimates that inflation will converge to the target of
between 1% and 3% in the first quarter of 2024, Macroconsult believes
that this objective will only be achieved after the second half of next
year.

Unlike 2022, when the factors that raised inflation were external
shocks, such as the rise in international food prices as a consequence
of the war between Russia and Ukraine, or the increase in fuel prices,
this year it is the internal situation of the country that delays a
reduction in the consumer price index.

Both Jiménez and Thorne explained that the protests that occurred in the
south between January and February, and the rains in the north between
February and April, have prevented inflation from falling at a faster
rate, as they affected the production and distribution of goods in
several areas of the country.

"And there are still important risks that could further delay the return
to target. Last year we had the problem of fertilizers that are only
going to be noticed in these months. Another issue is the onset of the
drought that occurred between October and November 2022, which is also
going to be noticed in this agricultural campaign," said Jimenez.

For his part, Thorne called attention to the fact that the reduction in
the dollar exchange rate has not yet been observed to be transferred to
consumer prices, that is to say, the benefit it should have on inflation
is not seen.

"It may be that the price adjustment takes a little more time, but it is
not yet seen in the inflation figures," the former Minister of Economy
specified.

Unlimited benefits with your subscription to Gestión! Enjoy up to 70%
discount on more than 300 promotions of the Subscribers Club, which you
can use as many times as you want. Check them out here. If you are not a
subscriber yet, purchase your plan here.

Load-Date: May 25, 2023

  End of Document

[]

The fight against inflation, far from over: experts

CE Noticias Financieras English

May 22, 2023 Monday

Copyright 2023 Content Engine, LLC.

All Rights Reserved

Copyright 2023 CE Noticias Financieras All Rights Reserved

Length: 759 words

Body

With the pause in the increase of the main rate of the Bank of Mexico
(Banxico) as a tool to combat high inflation and anti-inflationary
programs, analysts considered that although there have been two years of
constantly increasing the cost of money, the results are imperceptible,
as the war has not yet been won.

However, some consider that the United States has had a better, more
timely and effective control, which can be seen in the decline of core
inflation, and will therefore reach the target much sooner than Mexico.

For others, it is too early to take stock of the outcome of the fight
that Mexico and the United States, as well as the whole world, undertook
in the face of an inflationary outbreak of great magnitude due to the
combination of unusual phenomena, such as the pandemic and the war in
Ukraine.

Vector's Deputy Director of Economic Analysis, Luis Adrián Muñiz,
affirmed that the fight against inflation is not yet over, as it is
still facing a complex inflationary context and with a balance of risks
biased to the upside.

"It is difficult to evaluate how effective monetary policy has been.
Usually, these types of measures take time to take effect, because it is
a dynamic phenomenon exposed to multiple shocks," he pondered.

Muñiz, who has been internationally recognized as one of the best
inflation forecasters, pointed out that it is enough to look at the
behavior of core inflation, which represents a risk.

In order to be able to say that the fight against inflation is being
won, he exposed that a more decisive deceleration of the underlying,
with a clearer trend, is needed.

"We are not in that situation; although there have been gains in the
margin, the battle has been won, but not the war," he warned.

In this fight against the phenomenon of rising prices, central banks
have not been alone. Government intervention was necessary, through
fiscal policy.

While Mexico launched the Package Against Inflation and Famine (Pacic),
the United States introduced the Inflation Reduction Act.

According to Muñiz, Pacic and then the Anti-Inflation and Deficit
Reduction Agreement (Apecic) were not effective because of their limited
scope.

"In reality, the effect that Pacic had on inflation, if we take out the
issue of gasoline, was nil," he stressed.

It was a very costly measure with few adjustments in favor of consumers,
he emphasized, and even gasoline prices are still expensive.

However, for the Vice President and Co-Chief Investment Officer at
Franklin Templeton Investments, Luis Gonzali, although the gasoline
stimulus was very controversial, at the end of the day it turned out to
be a wise measure, because it prevented Mexico from having double-digit
inflation.

He stated that, although it is not yet possible to claim victory, he
thinks that the Bank of Mexico has done its job well compared to the
United States.

"I think Banxico's performance was good," he said, and he estimated that
there are areas of opportunity to improve communication.

He also pointed out that the country is in the middle of the process,
with high core inflation, which complicates progress.

In the opinion of Jesús Garza, professor of Economics and Finance at
Egade Business School, it is precisely in the underlying inflation where
the United States has had better results, because it has had a clear
downward trend.

The expert assured that the monetary policy in the United States is
working well and, in fact, the latest data is that the potential Gross
Domestic Product (GDP) has already closed, which means that the
aggregate demand had the desired impact.

It also has in its favor that, due to the bankruptcies of some banks,
credit will remain depressed, which will be reflected in lower
consumption.

Garza acknowledged that, although Mexico has also had a disinflationary
process, it is not as clear, so Banxico cannot "afford" to withdraw the
rate cycle.

He considered that the United States will reach its 2% inflation target
first, while it will take Mexico longer to return to the 3% target due
to internal factors that could harm inflationary expectations, such as
the impact of the wage increase.

In this sense, he found a point of agreement when he warned that victory
cannot be claimed, since there is still room for further rate hikes in
the country.

Muñiz also stated that inflation has already reached its peak, and
Mexico has a downward trend, but the effectiveness of monetary policy
will be measured as the fortnights go by. It is a matter of time, he
added, and what is needed is to reinforce its communication to manage
expectations.

Load-Date: May 23, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Oman's inflation falls to lowest level in two years

Muscat Daily

May 23, 2023 Tuesday

Copyright 2023 Apex Press and Publishing Provided by Syndigate Media
Inc. All Rights Reserved

[]

Length: 511 words

Byline: Joydeep

Body

Muscat – Oman's annual inflation rate in April dropped to its lowest
level in two years, thanks to slower increase in food prices and
stability in utilities, fuel, rent and transportation bills.

The inflation rate, as measured by the sultanate's Consumer Price Index
(CPI), dropped to 1.1 per cent in April 2023 from 1.6 per cent in March
and 1.9 per cent in February this year, according to data released by
the National Centre for Statistics and Information (NCSI).

Oman's annual inflation has been consistently declining in the past few
months due to easing global inflation and government measures that
capped prices of fuel and essential commodities.

Consumer price inflation for food items, which have nearly 24 per cent
weightage in Oman's CPI, rose at a slow pace of 2.7 per cent in April,
as opposed to 4.1 per cent in March. The 19-month low food inflation is
mainly attributed to a sharp nine per cent drop in vegetable prices in
April compared to a year ago.

Among food items, prices of cooking oil and fats rose 7.4 per cent
year-on-year in April, but bread and cereal prices grew at a lower rate
of 3.3 per cent. Meat prices recorded a slow increase of 0.9 per cent,
while prices of fish and seafood products jumped 10.3 per cent in April
year-on-year. Consumer prices for fruits increased 1.9 per cent.

On the other hand, cost of housing, water, electricity, gas and other
fuels remained stable in April this year compared to April 2022. Prices
in the transportation group, which has a percentage weight of more than
19 in the CPI, edged down by 0.15 per cent in April compared to the same
a year ago.

Lowest inflation in GCC

The International Monetary Fund (IMF) expects Oman's annual inflation to
further decelerate this year, thanks to subsidies, price caps on certain
products and a strengthening US dollar to which the Omani rial is
pegged.

Oman is expected to record an average inflation of 1.9 per cent for
2023, the lowest inflation in the GCC, according to the IMF. The
sultanate witnessed the second-lowest average inflation rate among GCC
countries in 2022 at 2.8 per cent, following Saudi Arabia, which
registered an inflation rate of just 2.5 per cent last year.

In its latest Regional Economic Outlook Report, IMF projects inflation
in the GCC countries will further decrease in the next two years,
averaging 2.9 per cent in 2023 and 2.3 per cent in 2024.

'Lower inflation in GCC countries is mainly attributed to governmental
interventions such as price caps on certain products, subsidies on key
products or utilities, and strengthening of the US dollar, to which all
GCC countries have pegged their currencies, except for Kuwait, which has
linked its currency to a basket of currencies including the US dollar,'
the IMF said.

According to a report from Kuwait-based Kamco Investment, the
combination of persistent high oil and gas prices and interest rate
hikes by GCC central banks, largely in unison with the US Federal
Reserve rate increases, has been another key factor that kept inflation
rates significantly lower in Oman and GCC countries.

Load-Date: May 23, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Institutional quality and its effect on inflation

CE Noticias Financieras English

May 22, 2023 Monday

Copyright 2023 Content Engine, LLC.

All Rights Reserved

Copyright 2023 CE Noticias Financieras All Rights Reserved

Length: 496 words

Body

Recently the Liberal Network of Latin America (Relial) published the
Institutional Quality Index, which measures and compares the quality of
institutions in terms of human cooperation and the progress of society
through two paths: voluntary exchanges in the market and the path of
politics and the State.

Observing Panama's position over the last 5 years, it is perceived that
the institutional quality has been deteriorating and creating incentives
for corruption, populist political measures, indebtedness for payroll
payment, among others.

This year's analysis emphasized how all expansionary fiscal and monetary
measures are causing inflation in Latin America, but the difference in
the degree of inflation suffered by countries is linked to the quality
of their institutions. A country with strong institutions allows the
monetary institution to have total independence in its actions and can
take measures to mitigate inflation without being influenced by the
Executive Branch. In the case of countries such as Venezuela and
Argentina, with inflation levels of 305.7% and 94.8% respectively, they
are in the 182nd and 108th positions of the ranking, indicating that the
central bank, instead of exercising its autonomy and ensuring the
curbing of inflation, is simply in favor of any fiscal policy taken by
the Executive Branch without even thinking about the effects this may
have on its citizens.

Among the direct effects that high inflation can have is that we
citizens can buy less and less things with our same salary because we
see in restaurants and supermarkets that all products have gone up in
price. In a few words, the actions of a few have worsened our quality of
life. With this I do not mean that there is no need to take measures to
activate the economy; what I want to convey is that all countries in the
world faced the same situations, but some have stabilized the rise in
prices and others simply have not been able to, subject to the
institutions and incentives they have in their countries.

In the case of Panama, it is interesting to see that people speak very
well of the country, since our inflation level is low (2.1%) and our
position in the ranking is 62 out of 183 countries. It is important to
understand that one of the factors why we have low inflation is because
we are dollarized. In other words, our low inflation situation is not
the product of a strong institutional framework where the fiscal and
monetary institutions have autonomy in their decisions, but is the
result of the absence of a central bank in the country.

If Panama had a central bank, based on the political reality of our
country, we would live situations similar to Venezuela or Argentina,
where both the Executive and Legislative bodies influence the decisions
of the central bank, destroying the purchasing power of the population
and creating a hidden tax, the inflationary tax.

The author is a student of the Master in Economic Analysis and a friend
of Fundación Libertad.

Load-Date: May 23, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Robertson explains inflation effect

Manawatu Standard (New Zealand)

May 20, 2023 Saturday

Print Edition

Copyright 2023 © Stuff Limited All Rights Reserved

Section: NEWS; NATIONAL; Pg. 8

Length: 455 words

Byline: Bridie Witton

Body

The Reserve Bank could hike the official cash rate (OCR) by 50 basis
points to 5.75% as part of its ongoing efforts to tame high consumer
prices, when it makes its next monetary policy statement on Wednesday,
ANZ chief economist Sharon Zollner predicts.

The central bank has since 2021 been increasing the OCR, which flows
through to the interest rates that banks charge consumers and
businesses, for loans such as mortgages, and makes them more expensive.
It has admitted it was trying to engineer a recession to stop people
spending and get inflation - the rate at which goods and services
increase in price - back down to the 1%-3% target band.

Zollner made the comments at an ANZ post-Budget lunch in central
Wellington, where Finance Minister Grant Robertson spoke more about
Budget 2023 which was unveiled on Thursday. It put $4.8 billion towards
tackling rising living costs ahead of the election, with policies
targeting parents, public transport users and the sick.

Robertson said officials thought hard about ensuring the $4.8 billion
spending plan did not exacerbate inflation. "When Treasury make their
assessments, they understand that there is also the profile of the
spending - how quickly do we spend something, how far is it spread out
across the four-year period? So we thought about all of those things,
and also the quantum of what we were doing, in order to make sure that
it did not unnecessarily exacerbate inflation," he said.

Robertson said this Budget - which focused on easing the cost of living
and building back after February's severe weather events - was harder to
put together than those made through the pandemic years.

"The hangover of Covid combined together with some high levels of
geopolitical instability working away at increasing inflation
significantly . . . just to make sure we didn't have enough ingredients
to put in the recipe . . . we have New Zealand's second largest ever
natural disaster," he said.

The Government had little discretionary spending in this year's Budget.
High inflation also made it more expensive for it to deliver services,
such as building houses.

"I always say we are buying the same [plasterboard] as everybody else,"
he said yesterday.

Budget 2023 will leave families with 2-year-olds up to $133.30 better
off each week through 20 hours of free childcare from next March, while
the $5 prescription fee at pharmacies will be scrapped in July.

Dropping the charge for medicines at pharmacies is set to save money for
about 3 million people a year and in particular 770,000 people aged over
65.

It will make most prescriptions free.

--------------------

CAPTION:

The finance minister spoke about his Budget at an ANZ lunch in central
Wellington yesterday. ROBERT KITCHIN/STUFF

Load-Date: May 19, 2023

  End of Document

[]

South Africa inflation slows to 11-month low

The Witness

May 24, 2023 Wednesday

Copyright 2023 24.com Provided by Syndigate Media Inc. All Rights
Reserved

[]

Length: 205 words

Body

Inflation in South Africa in April dropped to the lowest level in almost
a year although food prices remained obstinately high, the national
statistics agency StatsSA said on Wednesday.

Annual consumer inflation slowed to 6.8%t last month, down from 7.1% in
March.

"This is the lowest reading since May\xa02022, when the rate was 6.5%,"
said StatsSA in a statement.

Inflation for food and non-alcoholic beverages inched back to 13.9% in
April from 14% in March, having experienced record increases over the
past 12 months.

Milk, eggs and cheese products recorded an annual price increase of
14.5%, the largest rise since January 2009, according to StatsSA.

"On average, vegetables were 23.1% more expensive in April\xa02023
compared with April\xa02022," said StatsSA.

"This is the highest annual rate since November\xa02007."

Onions experienced a 52.8% hike in cost. Carrots, peppers and potatoes
also pushed the rate up, although prices for meat, oils and transport
fell back.

Despite the overall drop, analysts expect South Africa's central bank to
raise interest rates again this week.

Policymakers around the world are battling elevated inflation caused
largely by surging energy and food prices following Russia's invasion of
Ukraine.

Load-Date: May 25, 2023

  End of Document

[]

CoLA not the answer to beating inflation

Financial Mirror

May 20, 2023 Saturday

Copyright 2023 Alayam Newspaper. Provided by Syndigate Media Inc. All
Rights Reserved

[]

Length: 1019 words

Body

Adjusting wages to meet inflation with automatic mechanisms such as the
Cost-of-Living Allowance will not solve the real problem of income
inequality with low-earners not seeing their earnings improve for a
decade, argue economists.

Social partners have recently agreed to renew the Cost-of-Living
Allowance agreement to cover 66.7% of inflation, up from 50%, with
economists unconvinced that linking wages directly to inflation would do
much for people in real need.

In Cyprus, the pool of low earners is slightly smaller than in 2012,
despite the island being hit by unprecedented inflation, breaking the
record in July last year at 10.9%.

According to official data, just under half of the workforce is paid
less than EUR1,500 monthly.

Some 48.9% of the workforce receives gross salaries up to EUR1,500,
while another 10% get between EUR1,500-1,750.

The equivalent data in 2012 showed 49.4% of employees taking home gross
salaries of up to EUR1,500 and 9.3% between EUR1,500-1,750.

Although economists do not have any answers on how wages should change
with inflation, they appear to be on the same page on the importance of
wage growth within the limits of inflation and productivity.

Talking to the Financial Mirror, economist Sofronis Clerides said the
focus should be on combatting income inequality rather than introducing
ways to reinstate employee purchasing power lost to hiking inflation.

"There is no doubt that wages should reflect changes in the cost of
living with inflation, but an automatic across-the-board adjustment is
not the way to go about it," said Clerides.

The professor of economics explained that CoLA does not cover the whole
workforce,

Total employees are approximately 430,000, of which 77,000 belong to the
public sector and will be reaping the benefits of the new CoLA deal.

Of the remaining 353,000, only 28%, or approximately 100,000, are
entitled to CoLA.

This includes employees covered by a collective agreement, such as the
hotel and construction industry, the manufacture of medicines, and some
professions.

Clerides argued that the CoLA institution does not benefit everyone
equally.

"Employees who are better compensated, such as civil servants and
high-end employees, such as managers, will see their income increase
more in the amount of money added to their bank account at the end of
the month".

Furthermore, Clerides noted that inflation does not affect everyone
similarly.

"Low earners spend most of their income on food and energy, which saw
inflation rates of more than 20% in the past year.

"Higher income employees will spend their earnings on a much wider
variety of products, for which they also have alternatives".

He argued that even if an automatic adjustment like CoLA would restore
purchasing power, income inequality would not go away but would be
enhanced.

"Higher compensated employees will be earning even more in absolute
numbers, with a large part of their earnings going to savings instead of
the real economy".

Ioannis Tirkides, Chief Economist at the Bank of Cyprus, argued that the
issue lies with how income is distributed by the economy's growth.

"First, the distribution of total economic income, or GDP, between wages
and profits has shifted in favour of the latter.

"Second, within wage income, the distribution has changed in favour of
higher earners".

Tirkides said the problem is how to reverse these trends to ensure
decent income levels at the lower end without exacerbating inflationary
pressures and expectations.

"To ensure a fairer income distribution, the gains from growth are
distributed as evenly as possible, real incomes should rise in line with
the economy over time, and income inequality should narrow from current
high multiples".

Income distribution

He believes the distribution of income in Cyprus, just as in the rest of
the EU, has changed following the global financial crisis of 2008-09, in
favour of profits and at the expense of wages in most, but not all,
cases.

"Europe as a whole is a more egalitarian society than the United States
or the United Kingdom.

"For example, between 2009 and 2022, the share of wages in total income
at the EU level fell very modestly compared with more pronounced
movements at the country level".

In Cyprus, the share of compensation of employees in total GDP falls by
5.6 percentage points, from 47.8% in 2009 to 42.1% in 2022.

The share of profits increased by 7.8 percentage points to 46.1% of GDP.

Tirkides said: "Ideally, averaged over a period of time, we would like
wages to grow in line with inflation and also to capture some, but not
all, of the gains from productivity.

"This will ensure that as the economy grows in real terms, real living
standards also improve".

The economist said that between 2003-09, total compensation in Cyprus
captured all inflation and all productivity gains, with a consequent
reallocation in favour of labour wages and away from profits.

Wages rose by 4.2% per year, roughly in line with the sum of consumer
inflation of 2.9% and productivity growth of 1.2%.

"This was reversed over the 2010-22 period.

"Earnings growth was much slower at 1.3%, as was inflation at 1.2%.

"But while inflation was fully absorbed in the adjustment of earnings,
productivity growth, at 0.9% per year, was not".

As he said, this explains the reallocation of income in favour of
profits in the latter period.

Tirkides said that the link between wages and inflation is not easy to
quantify, as it would depend on the sources of inflation between demand
and supply drivers, sectoral differences in inflation and productivity,
and the share of wages in total operating costs.

"It is clear that to improve living standards, real wages should rise in
line with inflation and capture some of the productivity gains.

"But if, at the same time, we want to reduce the income differentials
that underpin the rather large income inequalities, the lower income
groups need to be protected against inflation.

"The solution to our dual problem requires discretionary approaches in
strengthening minimum wage legislation and using the tax system for tax
credits and allowances and a system of activity-based income support".

Load-Date: May 21, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Inflation falls to below double digits for first time in months

Herald Scotland

May 24, 2023 Wednesday

Copyright 2023 NewsQuest Media Group Limited All Rights Reserved

[]

Length: 885 words

Byline: Jody Harrison

Body

Inflation has eased back to its lowest level since March last year, but
remained higher than expected as food prices continued to rise at a near
record pace.

The Office for National Statistics (ONS) said that Consumer Prices Index
(CPI) inflation fell to 8.7% in April, down from 10.1% in March, as last
year-s energy price hikes were not repeated.

It marks the first time inflation has been in single digits since last
August, but it was higher than forecast by economists, who had pencilled
in a drop to 8.2% in April.

The drop does not mean prices have fallen - merely that they are not
rising as fast as they have recently.

ONS chief economist Grant Fitzner said: -The rate of inflation fell
notably as the large energy price rises seen last year were not repeated
this April, but was offset partially by increases in the cost of
second-hand cars and cigarettes.

-However, prices in general remain substantially higher than they were
this time last year, with annual food price inflation near historic
highs.-

The figures showed food CPI inflation at 19.3%, down only slightly on
March-s eye-watering 19.6%.

Chancellor Jeremy Hunt said: -Although it is positive that it is now in
single digits, food prices are still rising too fast.

-So as well as helping families with around 3,000 of cost-of-living
support this year and last, we must stick resolutely to the plan to get
inflation down.-

The steep fall in CPI reflects last April-s sky high rise in energy
bills dropping out of the calculation, with the energy price cap having
jumped higher a year ago as wholesale prices rocketed after Russia-s
invasion of Ukraine.

Last April, the energy price cap soared by 54% to 1,971, but this year
the Energy Price Guarantee (EPG) has been kept at 2,500 since last
October.

Ofgem is set to confirm on Thursday that energy prices will fall sharply
for households in July, when the current EPG comes to an end.

Forecasters at Cornwall Insight are expecting the price cap to fall to
2,053.77, below the EPG for the first time since it was introduced last
October.

But inflation has been stubbornly higher than predicted, with the rate
of food CPI the second highest for more than 45 years.

Shadow chancellor Rachel Reeves said: -As bills keep surging, families
will be worried food prices and the cost of other essentials are still
increasing.-

The Bank of England-s top bosses admitted to MPs on Tuesday that it made
errors in its forecasting of UK inflation, but governor Andrew Bailey
insisted that inflation had -turned the corner-.

It predicted earlier this month that inflation would fall to 5.1% in the
fourth quarter of 2023, narrowly seeing the Government hit its target to
halve inflation by the end of the year.

April-s big drop in the rate of inflation may take some of the pressure
off the Bank to keep increasing interest rates, now at 4.5%, but Samuel
Tombs at Pantheon Macroeconomics said it was -too small a drop for the
MPC to stop hiking in June-.

The latest data also showed the CPI measure of inflation including
housing costs (CPIH) fell to 7.8% in April from 8.9% in March, while the
Retail Prices Index (RPI) slowed to 11.4% from 13.5% in March.

READ MORE: Rise expected to day to highest level since 2008

Chancellor Jeremy Hunt said: -Although it is positive that it is now in
single digits, food prices are still rising too fast.

-So as well as helping families with around 3,000 of cost-of-living
support this year and last, we must stick resolutely to the plan to get
inflation down.-

The steep fall in CPI reflects last April-s sky high rise in energy
bills dropping out of the calculation, with the energy price cap having
jumped higher a year ago as wholesale prices rocketed after Russia-s
invasion of Ukraine.

Last April, the energy price cap soared by 54% to 1,971, but this year
the Energy Price Guarantee (EPG) has been kept at 2,500 since last
October.

Ofgem is set to confirm on Thursday that energy prices will fall sharply
for households in July, when the current EPG comes to an end.

Forecasters at Cornwall Insight are expecting the price cap to fall to
2,053.77, below the EPG for the first time since it was introduced last
October.

But inflation has been stubbornly higher than predicted, with the rate
of food CPI the second highest for more than 45 years.

READ MORE: Inflation cancels out growth in Scotland's shopping sector

Shadow chancellor Rachel Reeves said: -As bills keep surging, families
will be worried food prices and the cost of other essentials are still
increasing.-

The Bank of England-s top bosses admitted to MPs on Tuesday that it made
errors in its forecasting of UK inflation, but governor Andrew Bailey
insisted that inflation had -turned the corner-.

It predicted earlier this month that inflation would fall to 5.1% in the
fourth quarter of 2023, narrowly seeing the Government hit its target to
halve inflation by the end of the year.

April-s big drop in the rate of inflation may take some of the pressure
off the Bank to keep increasing interest rates, now at 4.5%, but Samuel
Tombs at Pantheon Macroeconomics said it was -too small a drop for the
MPC to stop hiking in June-.

The latest data also showed the CPI measure of inflation including
housing costs (CPIH) fell to 7.8% in April from 8.9% in March, while the
Retail Prices Index (RPI) slowed to 11.4% from 13.5% in March.

Load-Date: May 24, 2023

  End of Document

[]

BOK freezes rate at 3.5% as inflation wanes

THE KOREA HERALD

May 25, 2023 Thursday

Copyright 2023 The Korea Herald All Rights Reserved

Length: 608 words

Body

The Bank of Korea kept its key interest rate unchanged at 3.5 percent
Thursday, opting for a third consecutive freeze as inflation has been
showing signs of easing off in Korea in recent months.Koreaï¿½ï¿½s base
rate has stayed at 3.5 percent since February, when the central bank
first froze the rate after more than a year of rate hikes to tamp down
soaring prices.ï¿½ï¿½The BOK decided to keep the rate unchanged as it is
appropriate to maintain the monetary tightening stance, with the
inflation expected to remain above the target level for a considerable
time though it has been slowing down,ï¿½ï¿½ BOK Gov. Rhee Chang-yong
said at a press briefing held shortly after a rate-setting meeting.The
BOKï¿½ï¿½s target inflation level is 2 percent. The consumer price, an
inflation gauge, increased by 3.7 percent on-year in April, coming down
from the 4.2 percent in March.Despite the third rate freeze, Rhee warned
against market expectations of a rate cut happening within the
year.'Unless there is a definite proof that inflation will fall to the 2
percent range, it is premature to mention a rate cut,ï¿½ï¿½ he said,
adding that the board members agreed to have the terminal rate stand at
3.75 percent for the time being.'The BOK needs to watch out against the
US Federal Reserveï¿½ï¿½s rate decision amid high uncertainty, rather
than being hasty,ï¿½ï¿½ Rhee said, further explaining this does not mean
the central bank will 'mechanically' follow the Fed's decision.Though
Rhee maintained a hawkish stance, the bank's decision falls in line with
market expectations that the BOK will maintain the rate as inflation has
been showing signs of easing and the economy remains slow.With the
latest rate freeze, the Korea-US key rate gap remains at up to 1.75
percentage points.

The market projects the US Federal Reserve will hold the rate at its
rate-setting meeting in mid-June for the first time in more than a year,
ending its aggressive monetary tightening cycle.Rhee explained the
currency has remained stable despite the widened gap in the base rates.
The Korean won against the US dollar closed at 1,326 won, slightly
weakening from its opening price at 1,319 won, Thursday.ï¿½ï¿½We have to
break away from the perception that the gap in the key rates decides the
currency,ï¿½ï¿½ Rhee said. ï¿½ï¿½Of course, the differential is
important, but it is not the sole factor.ï¿½ï¿½Meanwhile, the BOK
announced a new projection for the economic growth rate of 2023 and 2024
for Korea.It lowered Koreaï¿½ï¿½s economic growth rate for 2023 to 1.4
percent, from its previous projection of 1.6 percent made in February,
in concern of the sluggish economy and exports.'We lowered the growth
rate projection as the IT industry is slow to rebound and the effects of
China's reopening have been delayed than initially expected,' Rhee said.
'In the second half of the year, the external conditions will be
somewhat resolved, and the economy is likely to pick up.ï¿½ï¿½It
projected the Korean economy will grow by 2.3 percent in 2024.As
inflation is on the path projected by the central bank -- continuously
easing off during the first half of 2023 -- it maintained the consumer
price inflation at 3.5 percent for 2023, while projecting 2.4 percent
for 2024.However, Rhee added that the uncertainty of the inflation rate
for 2024 is higher than that of 2023, as the recent fall in prices stem
from the base effect of the spike in oil prices in 2022.With the BOK
maintaining the rate, the market will await the US Fed's Federal Open
Market Committee meeting set to be held on June 13-14. The next
rate-setting meeting for BOK is slated to take place on July 13.

Load-Date: May 25, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Wall Street doubts that the FED can achieve the inflation target

CE Noticias Financieras English

May 23, 2023 Tuesday

Copyright 2023 Content Engine, LLC.

All Rights Reserved

Copyright 2023 CE Noticias Financieras All Rights Reserved

Length: 632 words

Body

Some bond market bets indicate that the inflation rate in the United
States will decline close to the Federal Reserve's 2% target in the
coming year.

Fund provider VanEck expects inflation to remain stuck between 3% and 5%
for many years, even if the U.S. falls into recession.

Invesco says the market is too optimistic that an economic recession
will put a lid on price pressures. Citigroup gives a similar assessment,
asserting that it is almost impossible for inflation to slow while wage
gains remain high.

Meanwhile, asset managers are anxious to avoid a repeat of 2022, when
Wall Street's top minds were shocked by both the sharp rise in inflation
and how much the Fed would have to raise rates in response.

Now more are joining the likes of BlackRock, Bank of America and
DoubleLine Group LP in warning that inflation will stay high for longer.

"It's going to have ups and downs," said David Schassler, head of
quantitative investment solutions at VanEck, adding that a recession
later this year could temporarily bring inflation down.

"What happens once the economy recovers? We think inflation will pick up
as it has in the past," Schassler said. Higher energy prices will push
inflation back up, he added.

Since 1960, it has taken an average of 12 years for inflation to slow to
2% or less once the U.S. consumer price index exceeded 5%, according to
data compiled by VanEck.

While the Fed's target focuses on the price index for personal
consumption expenditures, the central bank and investors closely follow
both figures. Historically, inflation based on the Bureau of Labor
Statistics CPI has been about 0.3 percentage points faster than the
Commerce Department's PCE, with an even larger gap during the pandemic.

Schassler's inflation range refers to both measures.

Reducing inflation to 3% by mid-2024 will be feasible if a recession
begins in the second half of this year, said Anna Wong, chief U.S.
economist at Bloomberg Economics, citing both the CPI and PCE. But even
staying at that level, let alone getting to 2%, won't be easy, because
there's a limit to how much prices of goods, services and homes can
continue to fall, she said.

To prepare for years of sticky inflation, VanEck's Schassler suggests
ditching the traditional 60/40 portfolio. Instead, he favors allocating
50% to stocks, 35% to bonds and 15% to real assets, with a focus on gold
and other commodities.

Invesco's Jason Bloom also expects inflation, referring to both
measures, to remain higher due to massive infrastructure spending in the
U.S. Energy is likely to become more expensive as the U.S. adopts
alternatives to fossil fuels, said the firm's head of fixed income and
alternatives ETF product strategy.

Short-duration Treasuries that currently offer higher yields will serve
investors well as inflation persists, Bloom said.

Stuart Kaiser, Citi's head of U.S. equity trading strategy, says
investors will stay on the defensive longer through a combination of
large-cap technology, industrials and health care stocks, as well as a
strong cash allocation, as inflation persists.

"We haven't seen much evidence that inflation is going to get to where
the Fed wants it to go, which obviously means they would have to change
their forecast and potentially increase further," Kaiser said, pointing
to the increase in average hourly. earnings in April that he believes
the market has not discounted.

He added that equity markets will be able to thrive even if inflation
remains elevated, as long as it doesn't rise more sharply.

Still, there are some investors who think inflation could eventually
slow to the Fed's target.

One of them is Liz Young, chief investment strategist at SoFi, who says
a recession could bring inflation down to 2% or lower, at least for some
time. "But the road to get there could be brutal."

Load-Date: May 24, 2023

  End of Document

[]

'Prices still soaring' as inflation rate falls below double figures

The National (Scotland)

May 24, 2023 Wednesday

Copyright 2023 NewsQuest Media Group Limited All Rights Reserved

[]

Length: 563 words

Byline: Adam Robertson

Body

INFLATION has eased to its lowest level since March last year, although
remained higher than expected with -prices still soaring-.

The Office for National Statistics (ONS) said that Consumer Prices Index
(CPI) inflation fell to 8.7% in April, down from 10.1% in March, as last
year-s energy price hikes were not repeated.

It marks the first time inflation has been in single digits since last
August, although it was higher than forecast by economists, who had
pencilled in a drop to 8.2% in April.

Commenting on the figures, the SNP-s economy spokesperson Stewart Hosie
said: -Any slight dip in the UK-s sky-high inflation is to be welcomed
but prices are still soaring - and the cost of living under Westminster
control is still far too high for many families, who were already
struggling to get by after 13 years of Tory cuts, Brexit and economic
mismanagement.

READ MORE: Boris Johnson referred to police AGAIN over fresh Covid
claims

-Under the Tories, the majority of families in the UK are worse off as
wages fall behind the increasingly unaffordable cost of food, housing,
bills and everyday essentials - showing exactly why Scotland needs to
escape Westminster control as an independent country.-

Despite the fall in the rate of food CPI inflation, costs remain high.
It fell to 19.3%, down only slightly on March-s eye-watering 19.6%
figure.

Chancellor Jeremy Hunt said: -Although it is positive that it is now in
single digits, food prices are still rising too fast.

-So as well as helping families with around 3000 of cost-of-living
support this year and last, we must stick resolutely to the plan to get
inflation down.-

The steep fall in CPI reflects last April-s sky high rise in energy
bills dropping out of the calculation, with the energy price cap having
jumped higher a year ago as wholesale prices rocketed after Russia-s
invasion of Ukraine.

Last April, the energy price cap soared by 54% to 1971, but this year
the Energy Price Guarantee (EPG) has been kept at 2500 since last
October.

Ofgem is set to confirm on Thursday that energy prices will fall sharply
for households in July, when the current EPG comes to an end.

Forecasters at Cornwall Insight are expecting the price cap to fall to
2053.77, below the EPG for the first time since it was introduced last
October.

But inflation has been stubbornly higher than predicted, with the rate
of food CPI the second highest for more than 45 years.

Shadow chancellor Rachel Reeves said: -As bills keep surging, families
will be worried food prices and the cost of other essentials are still
increasing.-

The Bank of England-s top bosses admitted to MPs on Tuesday that it made
errors in its forecasting of UK inflation, but governor Andrew Bailey
insisted that inflation had -turned the corner-.

It predicted earlier this month that inflation would fall to 5.1% in the
fourth quarter of 2023, narrowly seeing the Government hit its target to
halve inflation by the end of the year.

April-s big drop in the rate of inflation may take some of the pressure
off the Bank to keep increasing interest rates, now at 4.5%, but Samuel
Tombs at Pantheon Macroeconomics said it was -too small a drop for the
MPC to stop hiking in June-.

The latest data also showed the CPI measure of inflation including
housing costs (CPIH) fell to 7.8% in April from 8.9% in March, while the
Retail Prices Index (RPI) slowed to 11.4% from 13.5% in March.

Load-Date: May 24, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Wall St. Muddles Through Inflation Report

The New York Times

May 11, 2023 Thursday

Late Edition - Final

Copyright 2023 The New York Times Company

Section: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2; STOCKS
&AMP; BONDS

Length: 628 words

Byline: By The Associated Press

Body

A mixed day of trading left Wall Street slightly higher on Wednesday
after a report showed inflation is making strides toward easing, even if
it remains high.

The S&P 500 rose 0.4 percent after swinging between gains and losses
through the day. The Dow Jones industrial average slipped 0.1 percent
while the Nasdaq composite rallied by 1 percent.

Bond prices climbed after the highly anticipated report said inflation
at the consumer level edged down to 4.9 percent last month, its lowest
level in two years. That was slightly better than economists expected,
and other underlying measures of inflation also came in very close to
forecasts.

Because of that, Wall Street still sees the door open for the Federal
Reserve to leave interest rates alone at its next meeting in June. That
would be the first time it hasn't raised rates at a meeting in more than
a year, and a pause would offer some breathing room for the economy and
financial markets.

''The concern coming in was that it would be hotter than feared,'' said
Ross Mayfield, investment strategy analyst at Baird. ''While not exactly
an exciting report, I think there was enough good news baked in that it
shouldn't impact the Fed or the economic trajectory all that much.''

The Fed has jacked up rates at a furious pace in hopes of driving down
inflation. But high rates do that by slowing the entire economy and
hitting investment prices broadly. They've already sent stock prices
tumbling, caused turmoil in the banking system and dragged on the
economy enough that many investors expect a recession to hit this year.

Following the report, traders raised the probability they see of the Fed
holding rates steady in June to nearly 94 percent, according to data
from CME Group.

Stocks that benefit the most from an easing of interest rates led the
way on Wall Street, including Big Tech and other high-growth stocks.
Amazon's 3.3 percent rise and Microsoft's 1.7 percent climb were the two
biggest forces lifting the S&P 500.

On the losing end of Wall Street, Lincoln National fell 3.9 percent
after reporting weaker profit for the latest quarter than expected.

Airbnb dropped 10.9 percent despite reporting profit that matched
analysts' forecasts. It gave financial forecasts for the current quarter
that were weaker than some on Wall Street expected.

Most companies in the S&P 500 have topped profit forecasts so far this
reporting season, which is approaching its final stretch. But they're
still on pace to report an overall drop in earnings from a year earlier,
which would be the second straight quarter that has happened.

Icahn Enterprises, the partnership run by the activist investor Carl
Icahn, sank 15.1 percent after disclosing that federal prosecutors asked
for information related to its corporate governance and other matters.

The request from the U.S. attorney's office for the Southern District of
New York came a day after a short-selling research firm, Hindenburg
Research, accused Icahn Enterprises of inflating the value of some of
its investments. Icahn called the accusations misleading and
self-serving and published a rebuttal Wednesday.

In the bond market, increased hopes for a coming pause from the Fed on
rates pushed yields lower.

The yield on the 10-year Treasury, which helps set rates for mortgages
and other important loans, fell to 3.43 percent. The two-year Treasury
yield, which moves more on expectations for Fed action, fell to 3.9
percent.

Besides worries about interest rates and inflation, some corners of the
bond market are also swinging on concerns about the U.S. government
inching closer to a possible default on its debt. That has never
happened before, and economists warn that a default could be
catastrophic for the economy and financial markets.

https://www.nytimes.com/2023/05/10/business/11markets.html

Graphic

This article appeared in print on page B2.

Load-Date: May 11, 2023

  End of Document

[]

May inflation inches closer to 4 per cent: Nomura

Business Line

May 25, 2023 Thursday

Copyright 2023 FFC Information Solution Private Limited All Rights
Reserved

[]

Length: 269 words

Dateline: New Delhi, 2023-05-25 00:47:09

Body

Estimates made by Nomura suggest that May CPI inflation is tracking
sub-4.5 per cent levels. The Q2 2023 average may undershoot the RBI's
forecast of 5.1 per cent by 60 basis points. "Based on daily price data
(1-21 May), our provisional estimates suggest May CPI inflation is
tracking sub-4.5 per levels, with a point estimate of 4.2 per cent y-o-y
versus 4.7 per cent in April, and core CPI inflation is tracking 4.9 per
cent versus 5 per cent," Nomura said.

Base effects alone are likely to lower May headline inflation by 0.2pp,
but the remainder should be due to lower momentum. Daily food price data
show higher prices for vegetables, pulses, eggs, and sugar, but falls
for tea and edible oils. While m-o-m cereal prices are picking up, the
pace of increase is moderate. Within the fuel basket, lower subsidised
kerosene prices should help, it added. Within the core, gold prices -
linked to personal care CPI - have continued to pick up in May, albeit
lower than April's surge; transportation CPI is likely to stay subdued
with the freeze in petrol prices; cotton prices (affect clothing CPI)
are higher. "Broadly, the core categories are likely to see price
pressures ease as goods price inflation falls amid steeply falling
manufacturing costs and softer demand," Nomura said. The research
analysts at Nomura however added a caveat. "The final CPI estimate may
differ once the full month's data are out, but based on the provisional
estimate, the Q2 2023 average may undershoot the RBI's forecast of 5.1
per cent by 60bps. We expect an extended pause hereon, and an easing
cycle to begin from this October."

Load-Date: May 25, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Slight decline in food inflation in the United Kingdom

CE Noticias Financieras English

May 23, 2023 Tuesday

Copyright 2023 Content Engine, LLC.

All Rights Reserved

Copyright 2023 CE Noticias Financieras All Rights Reserved

Length: 247 words

Body

British food inflation eased slightly for the second consecutive month
in May, but remained near record highs, industry data showed.

However, the information gives little comfort to British consumers who
have been facing a severe cost-of-living crisis for months.

According to Kantar, annual grocery inflation was 17.2% in the four
weeks to May 14, down from 17.3% in April, but the third highest rate
recorded since 2008.

British households now face a £833 ($1,051) increase in annual grocery
bills if they do not change their behavior to reduce costs.

Differences

Prices are rising fastest on products such as eggs and non-refrigerated
cooking sauces.

Kantar's data for May provides the most up-to-date snapshot of inflation
in the UK.

Official data released last month showed that headline consumer price
inflation had fallen to 10.1% in March. However, food and non-alcoholic
beverage prices rose by 19.1% in March, the biggest rise since August
1977. Official data for April will be released tomorrow, Wednesday.

Products

The Bank of England said earlier this month that it expected headline
inflation to decline more slowly than expected, mainly due to
unexpectedly strong and persistent rises in food prices.

Food retailers have said they expect prices to rise in 2023 overall, but
with a declining rate of inflation throughout the year.

Prices of some products that had seen the steepest increases, such as
milk, butter, bread, pasta, and vegetable and sunflower oil, have begun
to fall.

Load-Date: May 24, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Wholesale inflation falls after 3 years

The Times of India (TOI)

May 17, 2023 Wednesday

Copyright 2023 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd. All Rights Reserved

Section: BUSINESS

Length: 405 words

Body

NEW DELHI: Wholesale price-based inflation declined for the first time
in nearly three years in April due to a high base and moderating prices
of commodities. The development prompted economists to say that the RBI
is likely to continue with its pause on interest rates.Data released by
the commerce and industry ministry on Monday showed inflation, as
measured by the Wholesale Price Index (WPI), fell 0.9% in April, below
the 1.3% rise posted in March. Decline in the rate of inflation in April
2023 is primarily accounted for by a fall in prices of basic metals,
food products, mineral oils, textiles, non-food articles, chemical &
chemical products, rubber & plastic products and paper & paper products.

This is the 11th consecutive month when WPI inflation has eased."The WPI
expectedly slipped into a year-on-year (YoY) deflation of 0.9% in April
2023 (+1.3% in March 2023), after a gap of 32 months, amidst a deflation
or moderation in inflation for several categories apart from minerals
and crude petroleum. Moreover, the YoY deflation in manufactured
non-food products (core-WPI) widened to a 41-month low of 1.8% in April
2023," said Aditi Nayar, chief economist at ratings agency ICRA."Global
commodity prices are about 20% lower on a yearly basis on account of the
elevated prices that prevailed following the Russia-Ukraine conflict and
the subsequent sanctions imposed against Russia during May 2022. A high
base and mixed trends in wholesale food prices in early May 2023 are
likely to soften the YoY food inflation, even as the near-term outlook
is clouded by the possibility of a potential heatwave and potential
development of El Nino conditions," said Nayar.Last week, data released
by the National Statistical office (NSO) showed retail inflation
moderated to an 18-month low in April on the back of a favourable base
effect and softening in some food prices, bringing much-needed relief
from stubborn price pressures."We think the moderation in retail
inflation (which we expect to continue) suggests a pause is likely in
the next MPC meeting in August. Easing wholesale price pressures
indicate that input price inflation is also easing...However, given
still high base effects in retail inflation, coupled with softening
momentum, we expect the MPC to remain on hold for the rest of the fiscal
year and do not envisage rate cuts in the near term," Barclays said in a
note. For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

Load-Date: May 16, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Serbia's inflation expected within 7.5-10% range by April 2024.

Intellinews - Serbia Today

May 23, 2023 Tuesday

Copyright 2023 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC All Rights
Reserved

[]

Length: 242 words

Body

Inflation is expected to be within the 7.5-10% range in Serbia in April
2024, according to a compilation of surveys of financial and corporate
sector representatives published by the National Bank of Serbia (NBS).

Serbia's inflation is predicted to continue its decline in the coming
year. Average annual consumer price inflation already slowed to 15.1% in
April, against the rate of 16.2% a month before, according to statistics
office data released on May 12.

Based on a survey by Ipsos, the financial industry predicts that
inflation will come in at 8.0% in April 2024, the same forecast as at
the beginning of the year. The Bloomberg May survey reveals a lower
expected inflation rate of 7.5% for the next year.

Corporate expectations for inflation one year from now are around 10.0%,
roughly the same level as they have been since September 2022.

In terms of longer-term projections, both the financial and corporate
sectors anticipate lower inflation rates for the next two to three years
compared to the one-year outlook.

The financial sector's expectations for inflation two years from now
have remained unchanged from the previous survey, staying at 5.0%.
Meanwhile, their three-year ahead expectations continue to fluctuate
within the NBS target tolerance range, settling at 4%. 

Similarly, medium-term corporate expectations show no change, with
anticipated inflation rates of 7.0% and 5.0% for two and three years
ahead respectively.

Load-Date: May 24, 2023

  End of Document

[]

BSP keeps rates steady as inflation cools

The Philippine Star

May 19, 2023 Friday

Copyright 2023 PhilSTAR Daily, Inc. All Rights Reserved

Length: 917 words

Body

As expected, the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas (BSP) has decided to keep
the country's key policy rates steady, halting a cycle of rate hikes
that started exactly a year ago to tame inflation and stabilize the
peso. However, the central bank is not shutting the door for the
possible resumption of another round of tightening cycle. BSP Governor
Felipe Medalla, in a press conference, announced that the Monetary Board
decided to maintain the interest rate on the central bank's overnight
reverse repurchase facility at 6.25 percent. Likewise, the interest
rates on the overnight deposit and lending facilities were kept at 5.75
percent and 6.75 percent, respectively.

Since May last year, the central bank has raised key policy rates by 425
basis points in nine rate-setting meetings, including the off-cycle
meeting last July 14 when it delivered the first jumbo 75-basis-point
hike.

With the robust gross domestic product (GDP) expansion in the first
quarter, as well as the continued deceleration of inflation, Medalla
said the central bank deemed it prudent to take a pause in monetary
tightening while remaining ready to respond to emerging threats to
inflation.

The BSP chief said the Monetary Board also deemed it necessary to keep
the policy interest rate at its current level over the near term, as
ongoing price pressures continue to warrant close monitoring.

'So, in short, the more likely scenario is, neither a cut nor an
increase in the next two or three policy meetings. So it's a pause for
two or three policy meetings. That's the more likely scenario,' Medalla
said.

According to the BSP chief, a prudent pause also allows monetary
authorities to further assess how macroeconomic and financial conditions
would evolve in view of tighter global financial conditions.

'The Monetary Board also noted that while GDP growth has remained robust
in the first quarter of 2023, demand indicators have also pointed to a
potential moderation in the recent months, suggesting that previous
policy rate increases by the BSP continue to work their way through the
economy,' Medalla said.

The central bank believes that inflation will ease back to its two to
four percent target by the fourth quarter of the year, taking into
account the impact of the aggressive rate hikes.

Inflation cooled to an eight-month low of 6.6 percent in April and
averaged 7.9 percent in the first four months of the year, still way
above the BSP's target range.

On the other hand, core inflation remained elevated at 7.8 percent in
the first four months of the year despite easing slightly to 7.9 percent
in April.

'Nevertheless, even as headline inflation has continued to decelerate
with slower increases in the prices of food and energy-related items,
core inflation has only eased marginally. In addition, the balance of
risks to the inflation outlook remains largely tilted towards the upside
owing to persistent constraints in the supply of key food items, the
potential impact of El Niño on food prices and utility rates, as well as
the effects of possible additional adjustments in transportation fares
and wages,' Medalla said.

Medalla said the central bank expects inflation to ease back to the two
to four percent target range as early as September, barring any shocks.

Dennis Lapid, officer-in-charge of the BSP's Department of Economic
Research, said the Monetary Board decided to lower the inflation
forecast to 5.5 percent from six percent for 2023 and to 2.8 percent
from 2.9 percent for 2023.

Lapid said the decision to lower the projections was based on the
slower-than-expected inflation outturn in March and April.

He added that the predominant upside risks to inflation outlook warrant
continued readiness to resume monetary tightening as necessitated by
incoming data.

According to Medalla, the BSP would continue to monitor developments
affecting the outlook for inflation and economic growth.

'The BSP stands ready to resume monetary tightening as necessitated by
emerging data, consistent with its primary mandate to promote price and
financial stability,' Medalla said.

Medalla said the central bank could lower the level of deposits banks
are required to keep with the BSP as early as June if the regulatory
relief measure allowing banks to qualify lending to micro, small and
medium enterprises (MSMEs) as compliance to the reserve requirement
ratio (RRR) lapses.

'If we decide not to extend that policy, then we must offset it by
cutting reserve requirement,' Medalla said.

ING Bank senior economist Nicholas Mapa said that while BSP opted to
keep rates unchanged, it did leave the door open for potential action
should data evolve in a manner that would require additional policy
moves.

While risks to the inflation outlook are tilted to the upside, Mapa said
the central bank also believes that inflation would revert to target by
the fourth quarter of 2023.

'BSP opted to carry out a prudent pause, retaining policy rates at
restrictive levels to tackle elevated core inflation while also
refraining from hiking rates given lower 2023 and 2024 inflation
forecasts. We expect BSP to keep policy rates steady in the near term
while standing ready to tighten further should inflation trends
reverse,' Mapa said.

The ING economist expects the BSP to lower the RRR by 200 basis points
to 10 percent next month.

China Bank chief economist Domini Velasquez said the prudent pause
relies on inflation not reversing its downtrend and the peso not
depreciating too much to kick off another round of inflationary
pressures.

Load-Date: May 20, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Inflation falling... but food costs still 'worryingly high'

Metro (UK)

May 25, 2023 Thursday

Edition 1, Scotland

Copyright 2023 Associated Newspapers Ltd. All Rights Reserved

[]

Section: NEWS; Pg. 2

Length: 242 words

Byline: LIAM COLEMAN

Body

INFLATION has fallen to single figures for the first time since last
summer but soaring food costs continue to heap pressure on hard-up
Brits.

Prices rose by 8.7 per cent in April compared with a year earlier -
better than March's 10.1 per cent but worse than the 8.2 per cent
experts hoped for.

Energy bill increases began to slow as the Ukraine war that has pushed
up global prices was already having a dramatic effect in April 2022.

But food costs surged 19.1 per cent - a near record - which chancellor
Jeremy Hunt labelled 'worryingly high'.

The price of sugar has risen by 47 per cent and cheese is up 39 per
cent, the Office for National Statistics reports.

Mr Hunt said: 'It is positive inflation is now in single digits, but
food prices are still rising too fast. So as well as helping families
with £3,000 of cost-of-living support this year and last, we must stick
resolutely to the plan to get inflation down.'

But James Smith, of the Resolution Foundation think-tank, warned: 'The
costof-living crisis is evolving with surging food prices now taking
centre stage.' And

Sarah Pennells, consumer finance specialist at Royal London, said while
prices rise faster than wages 'many will remain trapped in a cycle of
financial crisis'.

Unite union general secretary Sharon Graham added: 'Falling inflation
does not mean we've reached a turning point where things can only get
better.

'In the real world there's no end in sight to the cost-of-living
crisis.'

Load-Date: May 25, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Consumer relief as April inflation reads lowest since May last year

Cape Times (South Africa)

May 25, 2023 Thursday

Copyright 2023 Independent Newspapers Pty (Ltd) All Rights Reserved

Section: BREF; Pg. 9

Length: 691 words

Byline: Siphelele Dludla , siphelele.dludla@inl.co.za

Body

THE COST OF living in South Africa could start easing slightly in the
next few months as consumer prices moderated to a 11-month low in April
driven by easing but elevated prices for food, non-alcoholic beverages
and fuel.

However, the cost of borrowing might remain elevated for longer as
heightened levels of load shedding could force retailers to increase
prices again, in spite of the expected fuel price cut in June.

Data from Statistics South Africa (StatsSA) yesterday showed that the
annual consumer price inflation softened to 6.8% in April from 7.1% in
March.

This April inflation reading was the lowest since May 2022, when the
rate was 6.5%. It was also below market forecasts of 7%, driven by
slowing meat, oils, and fats, and fuel prices.

StatsSA chief director for price statistics Patrick Kelly said transport
recorded its ninth successive month of disinflation in April, softening
to 7.6% mainly due to the annual rate for fuel easing to 5% – the lowest
reading since March 2021. Kelly said the annual inflation for food and
non-alcoholic beverages remained elevated, but decelerated to 13.9% in
April from 14% in March as prices for meat slowed for a second
consecutive month, cooling to 9.5% from 10.6% in March.

“Inflation for oils and fats slowed for an eighth consecutive month,
tumbling from 16% in March to 9.9% in April. The last time this rate was
in single-digit territory was November 2020,” Kelly said.

“(However), the bread and cereals price index increased by 20.8% in the
12 months to April, slightly higher than March’s reading of 20.3%, but
lower than the recent peak of 21.8% recorded in January.”

The milk, eggs and cheese product group recorded an annual price
increase of 14.5%, the largest rise in 14 years since January 2009,
while vegetables were 23.1% more expensive, the highest annual rate
since November 2007.

The annual inflation for non-alcoholic beverages was 10.4% in April, the
highest rate since January 2010, driven by ground coffee or beans,
instant coffee, dairy blends and fruit juices.

On a monthly basis, consumer prices were up by 0.4% in April, slowing
from a 1% rise in March and slightly below market estimates of a 0.5%
increase.

Analysts are now forecasting inflation to continue trending lower off a
higher base in the coming months benefiting from lower fuel prices, but
the weakness of the rand and intensified load shedding could contribute
to its stickiness.

Nedbank economist Johannes Khosa said food inflation had probably peaked
and should also began trending down, helped by the moderation in global
food prices and higher local crop production due to favourable weather
conditions.

However, Khosa said there were risks that inflation could recede at a
slower pace than expected.

“The biggest concern is the rand, which could remain under pressure
given volatile global risk sentiment and unfavourable domestic factors,
including worries about persistent load shedding, poor growth prospects
and political noises ahead of the 2024 elections,” Khosa said.

“This will limit the benefits of lower global commodity prices.
Production costs will also rise as persistent load shedding is forcing
companies to generate power from diesel, and forcing the producers to
continue passing part of the cost pressures onto consumers.”

The annual core inflation, which excludes prices of food, non-alcoholic
beverages, fuel and energy, rose to an more than six-year high of 5.3%
in April, up from 5.2% in the prior month, in line with market
forecasts.

Headline consumer inflation is now forecast to average around 6% this
year.

Although the April inflation print was tiny, it has given hope that the
SA Reserve Bank (SARB) will start tapering interest rates in the second
half of the year when inflation drops within the 3 to 6% target range.

Sanlam Investments’ chief economist Arthur Kamp said it seemed an
additional interest rate hike was needed to anchor inflation
expectations and guide inflation towards the SARB’s mid-point target
range of 4.5% over the medium term.

“Therefore, it seems likely the bank will increase its repo rate once
again this week, we think by up to 50 basis points,” Kamp said.

Load-Date: May 24, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Why falling inflation masks some nasty surprises

The Independent (United Kingdom)

May 24, 2023 Wednesday 1:57 PM GMT

Copyright 2023 Independent Digital News and Media Limited All Rights
Reserved

[]

Section: BUSINESS,INDEPENDENT PREMIUM; Version:2

Length: 628 words

Byline: James Moore

Highlight: Another interest rate rise is coming, to 4.75 per cent – and
it may not be the last

Body

Well, we’re finally out of double figures. The headline Consumer Prices
Index (CPI ) rate of inflation for April came in at 8.7 per cent against
10.1 per cent in March.

It’s a steep fall, but a lot less steep than most had hoped or expected;
a Reuters poll of economists predicted 8.2 per cent, while the Bank of
England’s more conservative forecast was 8.4 per cent.

Set against those numbers, that result represents a substantial
overshoot, especially when you consider that energy – the principal
cause of the worldwide inflationary spike – is now playing less of a
role, with bills expected to ease compared to last year.

Food prices are picking up the slack, remaining stubbornly high; the
official figure came in at 19.1 per cent, barely changed on the previous
month’s 19.2 per cent despite the fuss supermarkets have been making
about cutting the price of some essentials.

Equally as worrying will be the performance of core inflation, which
excludes volatile components such as food and energy. A measure of the
underlying inflation in the economy, the expectation was that it would
stay flat at 6.2 per cent. Instead, it increased, and sharply, to 6.8
per cent.

A jack-in-the-box of the worst possible kind, it could be argued that it
points an accusatory finger in the direction of the Bank of England’s
rate-setting Monetary Policy Committee (MPC), with the exception of its
most hawkish member Catherine Mann, who has previously voted for harsher
medicine than her colleagues have been willing to administer.

Inconveniently appearing before the treasury committee yesterday,
governor Andrew Bailey had to admit that Threadneedle Street’s economic
model has proved inaccurate. Some of the pressure Bailey is now under is
motivated by the cynicism of Tory MPs, who find him a convenient target
to divert attention from their party’s economic record.

But while it is obviously easy to criticise with the benefit of
hindsight, some of the brickbats aimed at Bailey look justified. It
isn’t so much that the Bank didn’t see the inflation dam breaking, but
rather that the MPC was too slow to halt the flow.

Jeremy Hunt said: “The IMF said yesterday we’ve acted decisively to
tackle inflation but, although it is positive that it is now in single
digits, food prices are still rising too fast… we must stick resolutely
to the plan to get inflation down.”

That plan is now going to involve more pain because numbers like this
are creating pain for the Treasury. Markets are now expecting a higher
peak for interest rates , which had an immediate impact on the bond
markets on Wednesday. UK government borrowing, already starting to
overshoot forecasts, is getting more expensive still.

Interest rates take time to have an impact, but so far there are too few
signs that they are high enough to sustainably bring prices down. That’s
bad news for small businesses, for whom securing affordable credit is
becoming an increasingly pressing issue.

Institute of Directors chief economist Kitty Ussher said: “Policymakers
will hope that now that the headline rate is back to single digits,
expectations of future inflation will now start to fall as well, which
then could become self-fulfilling.” The trouble is, policymakers have to
date been over-reliant on hope.

We are nearly a month out from the next MPC meeting, on 22 June. Its
members are in a difficult spot, but with projections for the UK economy
notably improving, I expect they will bite the bullet. Another rate rise
coming, most likely 4.75 per cent; and I don’t believe it will be the
last.

Tough medicine but necessary. As a Twitter user observed on the ONS
inflation thread: “We’ve slowed down from 101 mph to 87 mph. It’s
slower, but we’re still nowhere near safe.” Time for the MPC to slam on
the brakes.

Load-Date: May 24, 2023

  End of Document

[]

Why food prices remain ‘worryingly high’ despite inflation falling

The Independent (United Kingdom)

May 24, 2023 Wednesday 11:14 AM GMT

Copyright 2023 Independent Digital News and Media Limited All Rights
Reserved

[]

Section: HOME NEWS,UK; Version:1

Length: 766 words

Byline: Ian Jones

Highlight: Consumers are continuing to face soaring prices for cupboard
essentials, even as overall inflation eases

Body

Food prices are taking centre stage in the cost of living crisis,
placing significant pressure on household budgets even as overall
inflation eases.

The Office for National Statistics (ONS) announced on Wednesday that
overall Consumer Prices Index (CPI ) inflation fell to 8.7 per cent in
April, down from 10.1 per cent in March, as last year’s energy price
hikes were not repeated.

It marks the first time inflation has been in single digits since last
August, but it was higher than forecast by economists, who had pencilled
in a drop to 8.2 per cent in April.

ONS chief economist Grant Fitzner said: “The rate of inflation fell
notably as the large energy price rises seen last year were not repeated
this April, but was offset partially by increases in the cost of
second-hand cars and cigarettes.

“However, prices in general remain substantially higher than they were
this time last year, with annual food price inflation near historic
highs.”

The latest ONS figures show food CPI inflation at 19.3% – down only
slightly on March’s 19.6% – consumers continue to face budget-breaking
price rises on kitchen cupboard essentials such as olive oil, up 49% on
a year ago, cheese, now 42% more expensive, and milk and backed beans,
both up 39%.

The ONS has published examples of how the annual rate of inflation for
everyday food and drink items has risen or fallen in the past year.

Two figures are listed for each item: the average rise in price in the
12 months to March, followed by the average rise in price in the 12
months to April.

Here are examples of where the rate of inflation in April was lower than
in March:

Here are examples of where the rate of inflation in April was higher
than in March:

The figures come a day after Kantar reported that grocery price
inflation has fallen for the second month in a row but remains at an
“incredibly high” 17.2%, continuing to add an extra £833 to the average
consumer’s bill.

In the dairy aisle, the average cost of four pints of milk has come down
by 8p since last month, but is still 30p higher than this time last year
at £1.60.

Chancellor Jeremy Hunt said this week the government “stands ready” to
update pricing rules after he spoke to representatives from the industry
to raise concerns over the sky-rocketing cost of groceries.

“Although it is positive that it is now in single digits, food prices
are still rising too fast,” he said. “So as well as helping families
with around £3,000 of cost-of-living support this year and last, we must
stick resolutely to the plan to get inflation down.”

He added that there was “no room for complacency” as food prices
remained “worryingly high”.

The Resolution Foundation warned last week that food prices are set to
overtake energy bills as the “epicentre” of the cost-of-living crisis,
and would force low-income households to eat less as own-brand
essentials are becoming unaffordable for some.

Meanwhile, analysis by Which? of April prices found that some meat,
yoghurt and vegetables were among items that have doubled in price
compared with a year ago.

The CMA said last week it had not seen evidence pointing to specific
competition concerns in the grocery sector “at this stage”, but it was
“important to be sure that weak competition is not adding to the
problems”. It will provide an update on its work over the coming months.

The CMA is also scrutinising supermarket unit pricing to ensure
retailers are sticking to rules that help consumers accurately compare
products and choose the best value for money.

The Government will consider updating pricing rules, including by
strengthening the Price Marking Order 2004, once the CMA review has
concluded, the Treasury said.

Food manufacturers have agreed to “continue to engage with senior
Government ministers” about potential measures to impose to ease the
pressure on households, according to the Treasury.

Last week Tesco and Aldi announced another round of price cuts on
own-brand pasta and cooking oil as deflation started to make its way
through to cupboard essentials.

It followed a number of supermarkets dropping the price of some lines of
bread and butter the week before in response to falling commodity
prices.

Sainsbury’s and Tesco also recently cut the price of milk by at least
5p, followed by Aldi, Lidl and Asda.

The latest cuts came as Downing Street hosted a “Farm to Fork Summit”,
bringing together farmers’ representatives and food and retail trade
bodies along with supermarket chiefs to talk about the Government’s goal
of boosting co-operation across the supply chain and the sector’s
resilience – and tackling rampant food inflation.

Load-Date: May 24, 2023

  End of Document
